# [227. Basic Calculator II](https://leetcode.com/problems/basic-calculator-ii/)

Given a string `s` which represents an expression, evaluate this expression and return its value. 

The integer division should truncate toward zero.

You may assume that the given expression is always valid. All intermediate results will be in the range of `[-2^31, 2^31 - 1]`.

**Note:** You are not allowed to use any built-in function which evaluates strings as mathematical expressions, such as `eval()`.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** s = "3+2*2"<br>
**Output:** 7

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** s = " 3/2 "<br>
**Output:** 1

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** s = " 3+5 / 2 "<br>
**Output:** 5
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 3 * 1e5`
- `s` consists of integers and operators (`'+', '-', '*', '/'`) separated by some number of spaces.
- `s` represents a **valid expression**.
- All the integers in the expression are non-negative integers in the range `[0, 231 - 1]`.
- The answer is **guaranteed** to fit in a **32-bit integer**.
---
# Solution
The approach used in the given C++ solution to the calculator problem is to use a stack to store the operands and operators. The algorithm is as follows:

1. Initialize a stack.
2. Iterate over the input string, character by character.
    * If the current character is a digit, append it to the current number.
    * If the current character is an operator, perform the following steps:
        * Pop the top two operands from the stack.
        * Perform the operation specified by the operator on the two operands.
        * Push the result of the operation back onto the stack.
3. Once the end of the input string is reached, pop all of the operands from the stack and add them together.
4. Return the sum of the operands.

Here is a more detailed explanation of the algorithm:

* **Initializing the stack:** The stack is used to store the operands and operators. The operands are the numbers that are being operated on, and the operators are the symbols that specify the operations to be performed.
* **Iterating over the input string:** The input string is a mathematical expression, such as "1 + 2 * 3". The algorithm iterates over the input string, character by character.
* **Processing digits:** If the current character is a digit, it is appended to the current number.
* **Processing operators:** If the current character is an operator, the algorithm performs the following steps:
    * **Popping the top two operands from the stack:** The top two operands on the stack are the numbers that are being operated on.
    * **Performing the operation specified by the operator:** The algorithm performs the operation specified by the operator on the two operands. For example, if the operator is "+", the algorithm adds the two operands together.
    * **Pushing the result of the operation back onto the stack:** The result of the operation is pushed back onto the stack.
* **Popping all of the operands from the stack and adding them together:** Once the end of the input string is reached, the algorithm pops all of the operands from the stack and adds them together.
* **Returning the sum of the operands:** The sum of the operands is returned as the result of the algorithm.

Here is an example of how the algorithm would work for the input string "1 + 2 * 3":

1. The algorithm initializes the stack.
2. The algorithm iterates over the input string, character by character.
3. The algorithm encounters the digit "1". It appends the digit "1" to the current number.
4. The algorithm encounters the operator "+". It pops the top two operands from the stack, which are 0 and 1. It adds the two operands together and pushes the result, 1, back onto the stack.
5. The algorithm encounters the digit "2". It appends the digit "2" to the current number.
6. The algorithm encounters the operator "*". It pops the top two operands from the stack, which are 1 and 2. It multiplies the two operands together and pushes the result, 2, back onto the stack.
7. The algorithm encounters the digit "3". It appends the digit "3" to the current number.
8. The algorithm reaches the end of the input string. It pops all of the operands from the stack and adds them together. The sum of the operands is 5.
9. The algorithm returns 5 as the result.

The given C++ solution to the calculator problem is a well-written and efficient implementation of the algorithm described above. It uses a stack to store the operands and operators, and it iterates over the input string once. The solution is also easy to understand and maintain.
```cpp
class Solution {
    
public:
    int calculate(string &s) {
       stack<int> st;

       int num = 0;
       char op = '+';
       for(int i = 0 ; i < s.size() ; i++){
            if(isdigit(s[i]))
                num = (num*10)+(s[i]-'0');
            if(!isdigit(s[i]) && s[i] != ' ' || i == s.size()-1){
                switch(op){
                    case '-': st.push(-num);
                    break;
                    case '+': st.push(num);
                    break;
                    case '*': num *= st.top();
                              st.pop();
                              st.push(num);
                    break;
                    case '/': num = st.top() / num;
                              st.pop();
                              st.push(num);
                    break;
                }
                op = s[i];
                num = 0;
            }
       }
       num = 0;
       while(!st.empty()){
           num += st.top();
           st.pop();
       }
       return num;
    }
};
```