# [402. Remove K Digits](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-k-digits/)

Given string num representing a non-negative integer `num`, and an integer `k`, return the smallest possible integer after removing `k` digits from `num`.

 


**Example 1:**

>**Input:** num = "1432219", k = 3<br>
**Output:** "1219"<br>
**Explanation:** Remove the three digits 4, 3, and 2 to form the new number 1219 which is the smallest.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** num = "10200", k = 1<br>
**Output:** "200"<br>
**Explanation:** Remove the leading 1 and the number is 200. Note that the output must not contain leading zeroes.

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** num = "10", k = 2<br>
**Output:** "0"<br>
**Explanation:** Remove all the digits from the number and it is left with nothing which is 0.
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= k <= num.length <= 1e5`
- `num` consists of only digits.
- `num` does not have any leading zeros except for the zero itself.
---
# Solution

The approach used in the solution to the Remove K Digits problem is a greedy approach. The algorithm works as follows:

1. Initialize a stack to store the digits of the number.
2. Iterate over the digits of the number, starting from the leftmost digit.
3. While the stack is not empty and the top digit of the stack is greater than the current digit, and the number of digits to remove is greater than zero, pop the top digit of the stack.
4. If all of the digits to remove have been removed, or the current digit is the last digit of the number, push the current digit onto the stack.
5. Remove any leading zeros from the stack.
6. Reverse the stack and concatenate the digits of the stack into a string.
7. Return the string, or the string "0" if the stack is empty.

Here is a C++ implementation of the algorithm:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    string removeKdigits(string &num, int k) {
        if(num.size() == k)
            return "0";
        stack<char> st;
        for(int i = 0 ; i < num.size() ; i++){
            while(!st.empty() && (st.top() > num[i]) && k){
                st.pop();
                k--;
            }
            if(num.size()-i == k){
                k--;
            }
            else st.push(num[i]);
            if(st.size() == 1 && num[i] == '0')
                st.pop();
        }
        num.clear();
        while(!st.empty()){
            num.push_back(st.top());
            st.pop();
        }
        reverse(num.begin(),num.end());
        return num.size() ? num : "0";
    }
};
```

This implementation of the algorithm is time-efficient and space-efficient. It uses O(n) time and O(n) space, where n is the length of the input string.