# [1108. Defanging an IP Address](https://leetcode.com/problems/defanging-an-ip-address/)

Given a valid (IPv4) IP `address`, return a defanged version of that IP address.

A defanged IP address replaces every period `"."` with `"[.]"`.

 

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** address = "1.1.1.1"<br>
**Output:** "1[.]1[.]1[.]1"

**Example 2:**

> **Input:** address = "255.100.50.0"<br>
**Output:** "255[.]100[.]50[.]0"
 

**Constraints:**

- The given `address` is a valid IPv4 address.

---
# Solution
**Approach:**

The approach is to replace all occurrences of the dot character (.) in the IP address string with two square brackets ([]) to "defang" the IP address. This is done because dots are often used in malicious code to represent parts of an IP address, so defanging the IP address makes it less likely to be used in malicious ways.

**Algorithm:**

The algorithm is as follows:

1. Create a new string `ip`.
2. Iterate over the characters of the input string `address`.
    * If the current character is a dot, append `[]` to `ip`.
    * Otherwise, append the current character to `ip`.
3. Clear the `address` string.
4. Return `ip`.

**Here is a more detailed explanation of each step:**

```cpp
string defangIPaddr(string address) {
    string ip = "";
    for(char ch : address){
        if(ch == '.'){
            ip.push_back('[');
            ip.push_back(ch);
            ip.push_back(']');
        }
        else ip.push_back(ch);
    }
    address.erase();
    return ip;
}
```

1. We create a new string `ip` to hold the defanged IP address.
2. We iterate over the characters of the input string `address`.
3. If the current character is a dot, we append `[]` to `ip`. This is because we want to replace all occurrences of the dot character with two square brackets.
4. Otherwise, we append the current character to `ip`.
5. We clear the `address` string. This is because we no longer need the original IP address string.
6. We return `ip`. This is the defanged IP address.
