# [345. Reverse Vowels of a String](https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-vowels-of-a-string/)

Given a string `s`, reverse only all the vowels in the string and return it.

The vowels are `'a'`, `'e'`, `'i'`, `'o'`, and `'u'`, and they can appear in both lower and upper cases, more than once.

 

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** s = "hello"<br>
**Output:** "holle"

**Example 2:**

> **Input:** s = "leetcode"<br>
**Output:** "leotcede"
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 3 * 105`
- `s` consist of printable ASCII characters.
---
# Solution

**Approach:**

The approach is to use two pointers, `p1` and `p2`, to scan the string from the beginning and end, respectively. As long as the characters pointed to by `p1` and `p2` are not vowels, we move the pointers forward. Once we find a vowel, we swap the characters pointed to by the two pointers. We repeat this process until `p1` and `p2` meet.

**Algorithm:**

1. Initialize two pointers `p1` and `p2` to the beginning and end of the string, respectively.
2. While `p1` is less than `p2`:
    * While `p1` is less than `p2` and the character pointed to by `p1` is not a vowel, move `p1` forward.
    * While `p1` is less than `p2` and the character pointed to by `p2` is not a vowel, move `p2` backward.
    * Swap the characters pointed to by `p1` and `p2`.
    * Move `p1` and `p2` forward and backward by one, respectively.
3. Return the string.

**Here is a more detailed explanation of the algorithm:**
```cpp
class Solution {
    inline bool vowel(char &c){
        return c=='a' || c=='e'|| c=='i'|| c=='o'|| c=='u' || c=='A' || c=='E'|| c=='I'|| c=='O'|| c=='U'; 
    }
public:
    string reverseVowels(string &s) {
        int p1 = 0;
        int p2 = s.length()-1;

        while(p1<p2){
            while(p1<p2 && !vowel(s[p1]))
                p1++;
            while(p1<p2 && !vowel(s[p2]))
                p2--;
            swap(s[p1++],s[p2--]);
        }

        return s;
    }
};
```

* In step 1, we initialize two pointers `p1` and `p2` to the beginning and end of the string, respectively. This ensures that we will not miss any vowels in the string.
* In step 2, we iterate through the string, swapping the characters pointed to by `p1` and `p2` if they are vowels. We continue iterating until `p1` and `p2` meet, which means that we have reached the end of the string.
* In step 3, we return the string.