# [412. Fizz Buzz](https://leetcode.com/problems/fizz-buzz/)

Given an integer `n`, return a string array `answer` (**1-indexed**) where:

`answer[i] == "FizzBuzz"` if i is divisible by `3` and `5`.
`answer[i] == "Fizz"` if i is divisible by `3`.
`answer[i] == "Buzz"` if i is divisible by `5`.
`answer[i] == i` (as a string) if none of the above conditions are true.
 

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** n = 3<br>
**Output:** ["1","2","Fizz"]

**Example 2:**

> **Input:** n = 5<br>
**Output:** ["1","2","Fizz","4","Buzz"]

**Example 3:**

> **Input:** n = 15<br>
**Output:** ["1","2","Fizz","4","Buzz","Fizz","7","8","Fizz","Buzz","11","Fizz","13","14","FizzBuzz"]
 

**Constraints:**

- 1 <= n <= 104
---
# Solution
**Approach:**

The code first defines a function called `fizzBuzz()`. This function takes an integer `n` as input and returns a vector of strings.

The function first creates an empty vector called `fizzbuzz`. Then, it iterates over the numbers from 1 to `n`. For each number `i`, the function checks if it is divisible by both 3 and 5. If it is, the function appends the string "FizzBuzz" to the `fizzbuzz` vector. Otherwise, the function checks if `i` is divisible by 3. If it is, the function appends the string "Fizz" to the `fizzbuzz` vector. Otherwise, the function checks if `i` is divisible by 5. If it is, the function appends the string "Buzz" to the `fizzbuzz` vector. Otherwise, the function appends the string representation of `i` to the `fizzbuzz` vector.

Finally, the function returns the `fizzbuzz` vector.

**Algorithm:**

The algorithm of the code can be broken down into the following steps:

1. Initialize an empty vector called `fizzbuzz`.
2. Iterate over the numbers from 1 to `n`.
3. For each number `i`:
    * Check if `i` is divisible by both 3 and 5.
        * If it is, append the string "FizzBuzz" to the `fizzbuzz` vector.
    * Otherwise, check if `i` is divisible by 3.
        * If it is, append the string "Fizz" to the `fizzbuzz` vector.
    * Otherwise, check if `i` is divisible by 5.
        * If it is, append the string "Buzz" to the `fizzbuzz` vector.
    * Otherwise, append the string representation of `i` to the `fizzbuzz` vector.
4. Return the `fizzbuzz` vector.

**Here code implementation in CPP**

```cpp
vector<string> fizzBuzz(int n) {
    vector<string> fizzbuzz;
    for(int i = 1 ; i <= n ; i++)
        if(!(i%3) && !(i%5))
            fizzbuzz.push_back("FizzBuzz");
        else if(!(i%3))
            fizzbuzz.push_back("Fizz");
        else if(!(i%5))
            fizzbuzz.push_back("Buzz");
        else
            fizzbuzz.push_back(to_string(i));
    
    return fizzbuzz;
}
```