# [917. Reverse Only Letters](https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-only-letters/)

Given a string `s`, reverse the string according to the following rules:

- All the characters that are not English letters remain in the same position.
- All the English letters (lowercase or uppercase) should be reversed.

Return `s` after reversing it.

 

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** s = "ab-cd"<br>
**Output:** "dc-ba"

**Example 2:**

> **Input:** s = "a-bC-dEf-ghIj"<br>
**Output:** "j-Ih-gfE-dCba"

**Example 3:**

> **Input:** s = "Test1ng-Leet=code-Q!"<br>
**Output:** "Qedo1ct-eeLg=ntse-T!"
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 100`
- `s` consists of characters with ASCII values in the range `[33, 122]`.
- `s` does not contain `'\"'` or `'\\'`.

---

# Solution

**Approach:**

The approach is to use two pointers, `p1` and `p2`, to scan the string from the beginning and end, respectively. As long as the characters pointed to by `p1` and `p2` are not letters, we move the pointers forward. Once we find a letter, we swap the characters pointed to by the two pointers. We repeat this process until `p1` and `p2` meet.

**Algorithm:**

1. Initialize two pointers `p1` and `p2` to point to the beginning and end of the string, respectively.
2. While `p1` is less than `p2`:
    * While the character pointed to by `p1` is not a letter, move `p1` forward.
    * While the character pointed to by `p2` is not a letter, move `p2` backward.
    * Swap the characters pointed to by `p1` and `p2`.
    * Move `p1` and `p2` forward and backward by one, respectively.
3. Return the string.

**Here is a more detailed explanation of each step:**

```cpp
class Solution {
    inline bool is(char ch){
        if((ch >= 'a' && ch <='z') || 
            (ch >= 'A' && ch <= 'Z'))
            return true;

        return false;
    }
public:
    string reverseOnlyLetters(string s) {

        int p1 = 0;
        int p2 = s.length()-1;

        while(p1<p2){

            while(p1<p2 && !is(s[p1])) p1++;
            
            while(p1<p2 && !is(s[p2])) p2--;

            swap(s[p1++],s[p2--]);

        }
        return s;
    }
};
```

1. We initialize `p1` and `p2` to point to the beginning and end of the string, respectively. This ensures that we will not miss any characters in the string.
2. In the while loop, we first check if the character pointed to by `p1` is a letter. If it is not, we move `p1` forward. This ensures that we only swap the letters in the string.
3. We do the same thing for the character pointed to by `p2`.
4. If the characters pointed to by `p1` and `p2` are both letters, we swap them. This reverses the order of the letters in the string.
5. We move `p1` and `p2` forward and backward by one, respectively. This ensures that we will check the next two characters in the string in the next iteration of the loop.
6. We continue the loop until `p1` and `p2` meet. This means that we have reached the end of the string and have swapped all the letters.
7. Finally, we return the string.