# [14. Longest Common Prefix](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-common-prefix/)

Write a function to find the longest common prefix string amongst an array of strings.

If there is no common prefix, return an empty string `""`.

 

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** strs = ["flower","flow","flight"]<br>
**Output:** "fl"

**Example 2:**

> **Input:** strs = ["dog","racecar","car"]<br> 
**Output:** ""<br>
**Explanation:** There is no common prefix among the input strings.
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= strs.length <= 200`
- `0 <= strs[i].length <= 200`
- `strs[i]` consists of only lowercase English letters.
---
# Solution

**Approach:**

The algorithm works by first finding the minimum length of all the strings in the list. Then, it starts from the beginning of each string and compares the characters one by one. If the characters are the same, it appends the character to the longest common prefix. Otherwise, it breaks the loop and returns the longest common prefix so far.

```cpp
string longestCommonPrefix(vector<string>& strs) {
    if(strs.size() == 0)
        return "";
    if(strs.size() == 1)
        return strs[0];
    
    int min = strs[0].length();
    for(int i = 1 ; i < strs.size() ; i++)
        if(min > strs[i].length())
            min = strs[i].length();
    
    string str = "";
    
    for(int i = 0 ; i < min ; i++){
        for(int j = 0 ; j < strs.size()-1 ; j++)
            if(strs[j][i] != strs[j+1][i])
                return str;
        
        str += strs[0][i];
    }
    return str;
    }
```

**Algorithm:**

1. Find the minimum length of all the strings in the list.
2. Initialize a string `str` to be empty.
3. For each character `i` from 0 to the minimum length:
    * Check if the character `i` is the same in all strings.
        * If yes, append the character `i` to `str`.
        * If no, break the loop and return `str`.
4. Return `str`.

Here is a more detailed explanation of the algorithm:

1. The first step is to find the minimum length of all the strings in the list. This can be done by iterating through the list and keeping track of the shortest string.
2. Once the minimum length is found, we initialize a string `str` to be empty. This will store the longest common prefix of the strings.
3. We then iterate through each character from 0 to the minimum length. For each character, we check if the character is the same in all strings. If yes, we append the character to `str`. If no, we break the loop and return `str`.
4. Finally, we return `str`.

This algorithm is correct because it will always find the longest common prefix of the strings. It is also efficient because it only needs to iterate through each character in each string once. The time complexity of the algorithm is O(M * N), where M is the minimum length of the strings and N is the number of strings.