# [409. Longest Palindrome](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-palindrome/)

Given a string `s` which consists of lowercase or uppercase letters, return the length of the longest palindrome that can be built with those letters.

Letters are case sensitive, for example, `"Aa"` is not considered a palindrome here.

 

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** s = "abccccdd"<br>
**Output:** 7<br>
**Explanation:** One longest palindrome that can be built is "dccaccd", whose length is 7.

**Example 2:**

> **Input:** s = "a"<br>
**Output:** 1<br>
**Explanation:** The longest palindrome that can be built is "a", whose length is 1.
 

**Constraints:**

- 1 <= s.length <= 2000
- s consists of lowercase and/or uppercase English letters only.
---
# Solution
The code I have given me is a function called `longestPalindrome()` that takes a string as input and returns the length of the longest palindromic substring in the string.

```cpp
int longestPalindrome(string s) {
    if(s.length() == 1)
        return 1;
    int alfa[52] = {0};
    int l = 0;
    for(char c : s){
        if(c>='a' && c <= 'z'){
            alfa[c-'a']++;
            if(alfa[c-'a']%2)
                l++;
            else l--;
        }else{
            alfa[c-'A'+26]++;
            if(alfa[c-'A'+26]%2)
                l++;
            else l--;
        }
    }
    if(l)
        return s.length() - l + 1;
    return s.length();
}
```

The approach used by the code is as follows:

1. Create an array `alfa` of size 52, where each element stores the count of the lowercase and uppercase letters that appear in the string.
2. Initialize a variable `l` to 0, which will store the number of characters that do not have an even count.
3. Iterate over the characters of the string.
    * If the character is a lowercase letter, increment the count of that letter in the `alfa` array. If the count of the letter is odd, increment `l`.
    * If the character is an uppercase letter, increment the count of that letter in the `alfa` array. If the count of the letter is odd, increment `l`.
4. If `l` is non-zero, then the longest palindromic substring must have one more character than the number of characters with an odd count.
    * Return the length of the string minus `l` plus 1.
5. Otherwise, the longest palindromic substring is the entire string.
    * Return the length of the string.

Here is a more detailed explanation of the algorithm:

1. The first step is to create an array `alfa` of size 52, where each element stores the count of the lowercase and uppercase letters that appear in the string. This is done because we can determine whether a string is a palindrome by counting the number of characters that do not have an even count. For example, the string "racecar" has an even count of all letters, so it is a palindrome. However, the string "madam" has an odd count of the letter "a", so it is not a palindrome.
2. The second step is to initialize a variable `l` to 0, which will store the number of characters that do not have an even count.
3. The third step is to iterate over the characters of the string. For each character, we do the following:
    * If the character is a lowercase letter, we increment the count of that letter in the `alfa` array. If the count of the letter is odd, we increment `l`.
    * If the character is an uppercase letter, we increment the count of that letter in the `alfa` array. If the count of the letter is odd, we increment `l`.
4. The fourth step is to check if `l` is non-zero. If it is, then the longest palindromic substring must have one more character than the number of characters with an odd count. This is because the odd characters cannot be part of a palindrome, so the longest palindromic substring must be made up of only the even characters.
    * In this case, we return the length of the string minus `l` plus 1.
5. Otherwise, the longest palindromic substring is the entire string. This is because all the characters in the string have an even count, so the entire string is a palindrome.
    * In this case, we return the length of the string.