# [1019. Next Greater Node In Linked List](https://leetcode.com/problems/next-greater-node-in-linked-list/)

You are given the `head` of a linked list with `n` nodes.

For each node in the list, find the value of the **next greater node**. That is, for each node, find the value of the first node that is next to it and has a strictly larger value than it.

Return an integer array `answer` where `answer[i]` is the value of the next greater node of the `ith` node (**1-indexed**). If the `ith` node does not have a next greater node, set `answer[i] = 0`.

**Example 1:**


>**Input:** head = [2,1,5]<br>
**Output:** [5,5,0]

**Example 2:**


>**Input:** head = [2,7,4,3,5]<br>
**Output:** [7,0,5,5,0]
 

**Constraints:**

- The number of nodes in the list is `n`.
- `1 <= n <= 1e4`
- `1 <= Node.val <= 1e9`
---
# Solution
The approach used by the given solution to the Next Larger Nodes problem is to use a stack to keep track of the indices of the elements in the list that are greater than the current element.

The algorithm is as follows:

1. Initialize a stack.
2. Iterate over the list from left to right:
    * If the current element is greater than the element at the top of the stack, pop the element from the stack and set the next larger node of the popped element to the current element.
    * Push the index of the current element onto the stack.
3. While the stack is not empty, pop the element from the top of the stack and set the next larger node of the popped element to 0.
4. Return the list of next larger nodes.

Here is a C++ implementation of the above algorithm:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> nextLargerNodes(ListNode* head) {
        vector<int> nums;
        while(head){
            nums.push_back(head->val);
            head = head->next;
        }

        stack<int> st;

        for(int i = 0 ; i < nums.size() ; i++){
            while(!st.empty() && nums[i] > nums[st.top()]){
                nums[st.top()] = nums[i];
                st.pop();
            }
            st.push(i);
        }

        while(!st.empty()){
            nums[st.top()] = 0;
            st.pop();
        }
        
        return nums;
    }
};
```

This implementation is time-efficient and space-efficient. It uses O(n) time to iterate over the list and O(n) space to store the stack.