# [528. Random Pick with Weight](https://leetcode.com/problems/random-pick-with-weight/)

You are given a 0-indexed array of positive integers `w` where `w[i]` describes the weight of the `ith` index.

You need to implement the function `pickIndex()`, which randomly picks an index in the range `[0, w.length - 1]` (inclusive) and returns it. The probability of picking an index `i` is `w[i] / sum(w)`.

For example, if `w = [1, 3]`, the probability of picking index `0` is `1 / (1 + 3) = 0.25` (i.e., `25%`), and the probability of picking index `1` is `3 / (1 + 3) = 0.75 (i.e., 75%)`.
 
**Example 1:**

>**Input**<br>
["Solution","pickIndex"]<br>
[[[1]],[]]<br>
**Output**
[null,0]<br>
**Explanation**
Solution solution = new Solution([1]);<br>
solution.pickIndex(); // return 0. The only option is to return 0 since there is only one element in w.

**Example 2:**

>**Input**<br>
["Solution","pickIndex","pickIndex","pickIndex","pickIndex","pickIndex"]<br>
[[[1,3]],[],[],[],[],[]]<br>
**Output**
[null,1,1,1,1,0]<br>
**Explanation**
Solution solution = new Solution([1, 3]);<br>
solution.pickIndex(); // return 1. It is returning the second element (index = 1) that has a probability of 3/4.
solution.pickIndex(); // return 1<br>
solution.pickIndex(); // return 1<br>
solution.pickIndex(); // return 1<br>
solution.pickIndex(); // return 0. It is returning the first element (index = 0) that has a probability of 1/4.<br><br>
Since this is a randomization problem, multiple answers are allowed.<br>
All of the following outputs can be considered correct:<br>
[null,1,1,1,1,0]<br>
[null,1,1,1,1,1]<br>
[null,1,1,1,0,0]<br>
[null,1,1,1,0,1]<br>
[null,1,0,1,0,0]<br>
......<br>
and so on.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= w.length <= 1e4`
- `1 <= w[i] <= 1e5`
- `pickIndex` will be called at most `1e4` times.
---
# Solution
Sure. Here is an approach and algorithm for the class Solution in C++:

**Approach**

* The class Solution stores the cumulative sum of the weights in vector v.
* The pickIndex() function randomly generates an integer between 0 and the total sum of the weights.
* The upper_bound() function is used to find the index of the first element in v that is greater than or equal to the randomly generated integer.
* This index is then returned as the index of the weight to be selected.

**Algorithm**

```c++
class Solution {
public:
 vector<int> v;
    Solution(vector<int>& w) {
        v.push_back(w[0]);
        for(int i=1;i<w.size();i++){
            v.push_back(v[i-1]+w[i]);
        }
    }
    
    int pickIndex() {
         int n= rand()%v[v.size()-1];
       int it=upper_bound(v.begin(),v.end(),n)-v.begin();
        //return it-v.begin();
        return it;
    }
};
/**
 * Your Solution object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * Solution* obj = new Solution(w);
 * int param_1 = obj->pickIndex();
 */
```

This algorithm is based on the idea of using a cumulative sum to efficiently find the index of the weight to be selected. The cumulative sum is stored in vector v, and the pickIndex() function uses the upper_bound() function to find the index of the first element in v that is greater than or equal to the randomly generated integer. This index is then returned as the index of the weight to be selected.

This algorithm is efficient because it only takes O(log n) time to find the index of the weight to be selected, where n is the number of weights. This is because the upper_bound() function has a logarithmic time complexity.

I hope this helps!