# [278. First Bad Version](https://leetcode.com/problems/first-bad-version/)

You are a product manager and currently leading a team to develop a new product. Unfortunately, the latest version of your product fails the quality check. Since each version is developed based on the previous version, all the versions after a bad version are also bad.

Suppose you have `n` versions `[1, 2, ..., n]` and you want to find out the first bad one, which causes all the following ones to be bad.

You are given an API `bool isBadVersion(version)` which returns whether `version` is bad. Implement a function to find the first bad version. You should minimize the number of calls to the API.

 

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** n = 5, bad = 4<br>
**Output:** 4<br>
**Explanation:**<br>
call isBadVersion(3) -> false<br>
call isBadVersion(5) -> true<br>
call isBadVersion(4) -> true<br>
Then 4 is the first bad version.

**Example 2:**

> **Input:** n = 1, bad = 1<br>
**Output:** 1
 

Constraints:

- `1 <= bad <= n <= 231 - 1`
---
# Solution

The code I provided is a solution to the "First Bad Version" problem, which is a classic coding interview problem. The problem asks you to find the first bad version in a sorted array of versions, where each version is either good or bad. The only way to determine whether a version is good or bad is to call the function `isBadVersion(version)`.

The code works by using a binary search algorithm. The binary search algorithm repeatedly divides the array in half until the desired element is found. In this case, the desired element is the first bad version.
```cpp
int firstBadVersion(int n) {
    int s = 1; 
    while(s<=n){
        int mid = s + (n-s)/2;
        
        if(isBadVersion(mid)){
            n = mid;
            n = mid - 1;
        }
        else s = mid + 1;
    }
    return n+1;
}
```

**Algorithm**

1. Initialize two pointers, `start` and `end`, to the beginning and end of the array, respectively.
2. While `start` is less than or equal to `end`:
    * Calculate the middle index of the array, `mid`.
    * If `isBadVersion(mid)` is `true`, then the first bad version is somewhere in the left half of the array. Set `end` to `mid - 1`.
    * Otherwise, the first bad version is somewhere in the right half of the array. Set `start` to `mid + 1`.
3. Return `start`.

**Example**

```
Suppose we have the following array of versions:

[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]

and the function `isBadVersion()` returns `true` for versions 5 and above.

The algorithm would work as follows:

1. Initialize `start` to 1 and `end` to 10.
2. Calculate the middle index of the array, `mid`, which is 5.
3. Call `isBadVersion(mid)`. Since `mid` is equal to 5, `isBadVersion()` will return `true`.
4. Set `end` to `mid - 1`, which is 4.
5. Repeat steps 2-4 until `start` is greater than `end`.
6. Return `start`, which is 5.

Therefore, the first bad version is version 5.
```

**Analysis**

The time complexity of the binary search algorithm is O(log n), where n is the length of the array. This is because the algorithm repeatedly divides the array in half until the desired element is found.

The space complexity of the binary search algorithm is O(1), since the algorithm only uses a constant number of variables.