# [704. Binary Search](https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-search/)

Given an array of integers `nums` which is sorted in ascending order, and an integer `target`, write a function to search `target` in `nums`. If `target` exists, then return its index. Otherwise, return `-1`.

You must write an algorithm with `O(log n)` runtime complexity.

 

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** nums = [-1,0,3,5,9,12], target = 9<br>
**Output:** 4<br>
**Explanation:** 9 exists in nums and its index is 4

**Example 2:**

> **Input:** nums = [-1,0,3,5,9,12], target = 2<br>
**Output:** -1<br>
**Explanation:** 2 does not exist in nums so return -1
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 104`
- `-104 < nums[i], target < 104`
- All the integers in `nums` are unique.
- nums is sorted in ascending order.
---
# Solution

The code I provided has two approaches for searching for a target value in a sorted vector of integers:

**Approach 1: Iteration**

This approach works by iteratively comparing the target value to the middle element of the vector. If the target value is equal to the middle element, then the target value is found and the index of the middle element is returned. If the target value is less than the middle element, then the search is narrowed down to the left half of the vector. Otherwise, the search is narrowed down to the right half of the vector. The search continues until the target value is found or the entire vector has been searched.
```cpp
int search(vector<int>& nums, int target) {
    int s = 0;
    int e = nums.size()-1;

    while(s<=e){
        int mid = s + (e-s)/2;
        if(nums[mid] == target)
            return mid;
        if(nums[mid] < target)
            s = mid+1;
        else e = mid-1;
    }

    return -1;
}
```

**Approach 2: Recursion**

This approach works by recursively dividing the vector in half and searching for the target value in the appropriate half. If the target value is equal to the middle element of the vector, then the target value is found and the index of the middle element is returned. Otherwise, the search is recursively performed on the appropriate half of the vector. The search continues until the target value is found or the entire vector has been searched.

```cpp
class Solution {
    inline int binarySearch(vector<int> &nums, int s, int e, int target){
        if(s>e)
            return -1;
        if(nums[s] == target)
            return s;
        if(nums[e] == target)
            return e;
        int mid = s + (e-s)/2;
        if(nums[mid] == target)
            return mid;
        if(nums[mid] < target)
            return binarySearch(nums,mid+1,e,target);
        return binarySearch(nums,s,mid-1,target); 
    }
public:
    int search(vector<int>& nums, int target) {

        return binarySearch(nums, 0, nums.size()-1,target);
    }
};
```

**Algorithm**

Both approaches follow the same basic algorithm:

1. Compare the target value to the middle element of the vector.
2. If the target value is equal to the middle element, then return the index of the middle element.
3. If the target value is less than the middle element, then search for the target value in the left half of the vector.
4. Otherwise, search for the target value in the right half of the vector.
5. Repeat steps 1-4 until the target value is found or the entire vector has been searched.

**Example**

```c++
vector<int> nums = {1, 3, 5, 7, 9};
int target = 5;

int index = search(nums, target);

if (index != -1) {
  cout << "The target value is found at index " << index << endl;
} else {
  cout << "The target value is not found in the vector" << endl;
}
```

Output:

```
The target value is found at index 2
```

**Which approach is better?**

Both approaches have the same time complexity of O(log n), where n is the size of the vector. However, the recursive approach may be slower than the iterative approach due to the overhead of recursion.

In general, it is recommended to use the iterative approach unless there is a specific reason to use the recursive approach.