# [207. Course Schedule](https://leetcode.com/problems/course-schedule/)

There are a total of `numCourses` courses you have to take, labeled from `0` to `numCourses - 1`. You are given an array `prerequisites` where `prerequisites[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that you must take course `bi` first if you want to take course `ai`.

- **For example**, the pair `[0, 1]`, indicates that to take course `0` you have to first take course `1`.

Return `true` if you can finish all courses. Otherwise, return `false`.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** numCourses = 2, prerequisites = [[1,0]]<br>
**Output:** true<br>
**Explanation:** There are a total of 2 courses to take. <br>
To take course 1 you should have finished course 0. So it is possible.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** numCourses = 2, prerequisites = [[1,0],[0,1]]<br>
**Output:** false<br>
**Explanation:** There are a total of 2 courses to take. <br>
To take course 1 you should have finished course 0, and to take course 0 you should also have finished course 1. So it is impossible.
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= numCourses <= 2000`
- `0 <= prerequisites.length <= 5000`
- `prerequisites[i].length == 2`
- `0 <= ai, bi < numCourses`
- All the pairs `prerequisites[i]` are **unique**.
---
# Solution

**DFS Solution**

Sure. The approach and algorithm for the C++ solution to the problem of checking if all courses can be finished given a list of course prerequisites is as follows:

**Approach:**

1. Create a graph to represent the course prerequisites. Each node in the graph represents a course, and an edge from node A to node B represents the fact that course B must be finished before course A can be started.
2. Check if the graph has a cycle. If it does, then it is not possible to finish all courses, since there will be at least one course that has a prerequisite that can never be finished.
3. If the graph does not have a cycle, then it is possible to finish all courses. Topological sorting can be used to find an order in which the courses can be finished.

**Algorithm:**

```c++
bool canFinish(int numCourses, vector<vector<int>>& prerequisites) {
  // Create a graph to represent the course prerequisites.
  vector<vector<int>> adj(numCourses);
  for (vector<int>& prerequisite : prerequisites) {
    adj[prerequisite[0]].push_back(prerequisite[1]);
  }

  // Check if the graph has a cycle.
  vector<bool> visited(numCourses, false);
  vector<bool> onPath(numCourses, false);
  for (int i = 0; i < numCourses; i++) {
    if (!visited[i] && dfs(i, adj, visited, onPath)) {
      return false;
    }
  }

  // If the graph does not have a cycle, then it is possible to finish all courses.
  return true;
}

bool dfs(int node, vector<vector<int>>& adj, vector<bool>& visited, vector<bool>& onPath) {
  visited[node] = true;
  onPath[node] = true;
  for (int neighbor : adj[node]) {
    if (!visited[neighbor]) {
      if (dfs(neighbor, adj, visited, onPath)) {
        return true;
      }
    } else if (onPath[neighbor]) {
      return true;
    }
  }
  onPath[node] = false;
  return false;
}
```

This algorithm works by first creating a graph to represent the course prerequisites. Then, it uses a depth-first search to check if the graph has a cycle. If the graph has a cycle, then it is not possible to finish all courses, and the algorithm returns `false`. Otherwise, the algorithm returns `true`.

**BFS Solution**

This solution uses a topological sort to determine if it is possible to finish all the courses. A topological sort is a linear ordering of all the nodes in a directed acyclic graph (DAG) such that for every edge (u, v), u comes before v in the ordering. If the prerequisites form a DAG, then it is possible to finish all the courses by following the topological sort ordering.

The algorithm works by first creating a graph adjacency list from the prerequisites. Then, it iterates over the graph and adds all the nodes with no incoming edges to a queue. These nodes are the courses that can be taken first.

Next, the algorithm repeatedly pops a node from the queue and takes it (i.e., marks it as visited). Then, it iterates over the outgoing edges of the node and decrements the in-degree of each of its neighbors. If the in-degree of a neighbor becomes zero, then it is added to the queue.

The algorithm terminates when the queue is empty. If all the nodes have been visited, then it is possible to finish all the courses. Otherwise, it is not possible to finish all the courses.

Here is a more detailed explanation of the algorithm:

1. Create a graph adjacency list from the prerequisites.
2. Initialize a queue with all the nodes that have no incoming edges.
3. While the queue is not empty:
    a. Pop a node from the queue and mark it as visited.
    b. Iterate over the outgoing edges of the node and decrement the in-degree of each of its neighbors.
    c. If the in-degree of a neighbor becomes zero, add it to the queue.
4. If all the nodes have been visited, then return true. Otherwise, return false.

Here is a C++ implementation of the algorithm:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    bool canFinish(int numCourses, vector<vector<int>>& prerequisites) {
        vector<int> visited (numCourses, 0);

        vector<int> adj[numCourses];
        for(auto it : prerequisites){
            adj[it[0]].push_back(it[1]);
        }

        for(int i = 0 ; i < numCourses ; i++)
           for(auto it : adj[i])
                visited[it]++;

        queue<int> que;

        for(int i = 0 ; i < numCourses ; i++)
                if(visited[i] == 0)
                    que.push(i);



        int count = 0;

        while(!que.empty()){
            int node = que.front();
            que.pop();
            count++;

            for(auto it : adj[node]){
                visited[it]--;
                if(visited[it] == 0)
                    que.push(it);
            }
        }
        if(numCourses == count)
            return true;
        return false;
    }
};
```

This implementation uses a queue to store the nodes that can be taken next. The queue is initialized with all the nodes that have no incoming edges. The algorithm then repeatedly pops a node from the queue and takes it. After taking a node, the algorithm iterates over its outgoing edges and decrements the in-degree of each of its neighbors. If the in-degree of a neighbor becomes zero, then it is added to the queue.

The algorithm terminates when the queue is empty. If all the nodes have been visited, then the algorithm returns true, indicating that it is possible to finish all the courses. Otherwise, the algorithm returns false.