# [241. Different Ways to Add Parentheses](https://leetcode.com/problems/different-ways-to-add-parentheses/)

Given a string `expression` of numbers and operators, return all possible results from computing all the different possible ways to group numbers and operators. You may return the answer in any order.

The test cases are generated such that the output values fit in a 32-bit integer and the number of different results does not exceed `1e4`.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** expression = "2-1-1"<br>
**Output:** [0,2]<br>
**Explanation:**<br>
((2-1)-1) = 0 <br>
(2-(1-1)) = 2

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** expression = "2*3-4*5"<br>
**Output:** [-34,-14,-10,-10,10]<br>
**Explanation:**<br>
(2*(3-(4*5))) = -34 <br>
((2*3)-(4*5)) = -14 <br>
((2*(3-4))*5) = -10 <br>
(2*((3-4)*5)) = -10 <br>
(((2*3)-4)*5) = 10
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= expression.length <= 20`
- `expression` consists of digits and the operator `'+'`, `'-'`, and `'*'`.
- All the integer values in the input expression are in the range `[0, 99]`.
---
# Solution

**Algorithm**

The algorithm for the `diffWaysToCompute()` function is as follows:

1. Initialize a vector `result` to store the results.
2. Iterate over the expression string:
    * If the current character is a number, then convert it to an integer and add it to the `result` vector.
    * Otherwise, the current character is an operator.
        * Recursively call the `diffWaysToCompute()` function on the left and right operands of the operator.
        * For each combination of results from the left and right operands, perform the operation and add the result to the `result` vector.
3. Return the `result` vector.

**Approach**

The approach for the `diffWaysToCompute()` function is to recursively divide the expression into smaller and smaller sub-expressions until each sub-expression is a single number. For each sub-expression, we recursively compute all possible ways to evaluate it. Then, we combine the results from the left and right operands of each operator to compute all possible ways to evaluate the expression.

**Example**

Let's consider the following expression:

```
"2*3-4*5"
```

We can recursively divide this expression into the following sub-expressions:

```
* 2
* 3
* 4
* 5
```

Each of these sub-expressions is a single number, so we can simply evaluate them to get the following results:

```
2
3
4
5
```

Now, we can combine the results from the left and right operands of each operator to compute all possible ways to evaluate the expression:

```
2 * 3 - 4 * 5 = -14
```

Therefore, the `diffWaysToCompute()` function would return the following vector:

```
[-14]
```

**C++ Implementation**

The following C++ code implements the `diffWaysToCompute()` function:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> diffWaysToCompute(string expression) {
        vector<int> result;
        bool number = true;

        for(int i = 0 ; i < expression.size() ; i++){
            if(!isdigit(expression[i])){
                number = false;

                vector<int> left = diffWaysToCompute(expression.substr(0,i));

                vector<int> right = diffWaysToCompute(expression.substr(i+1));

                for(int x : left){
                    for(int y : right){
                        int val = perform(x,y,expression[i]);
                            result.push_back(val);
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        if(number)
            result.push_back(stoi(expression));
        return result;
    }
};
```

The `perform()` function is a helper function that performs the operation specified by the given operator on the two given operands.

To use the `diffWaysToCompute()` function, simply pass the expression string to the function. The function will return a vector containing all possible ways to evaluate the expression.