# [368. Largest Divisible Subset](https://leetcode.com/problems/largest-divisible-subset/)

Given a set of distinct positive integers `nums`, return the largest subset `answer` such that every pair (`answer[i]`, `answer[j]`) of elements in this subset satisfies:

- `answer[i] % answer[j] == 0`, or
- `answer[j] % answer[i] == 0`

If there are multiple solutions, return any of them.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** nums = [1,2,3]<br>
**Output:** [1,2]<br>
**Explanation:** [1,3] is also accepted.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** nums = [1,2,4,8]<br>
**Output:** [1,2,4,8]
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 1000`
- `1 <= nums[i] <= 2 * 1e9`
- All the integers in `nums` are unique.
---
# Solution
Approach:
This algorithm uses dynamic programming to find the largest divisible subset in a given array. The basic idea is to keep track of the size of the largest divisible subset ending at each element in the array. We can then use this information to find the largest divisible subset in the entire array.

Algorithm:
1. Sort the input array in ascending order.
2. Initialize a dynamic programming array `dp` of size `n`, where `n` is the length of the input array. The value of `dp[i]` represents the size of the largest divisible subset ending at the element `i` in the input array.
3. Initialize a predecessor array `pred` of size `n`, where `n` is the length of the input array. The value of `pred[i]` represents the index of the predecessor of the element `i` in the largest divisible subset ending at the element `i`.
4. Iterate over the input array from `1` to `n - 1`. For each element `i` in the input array, do the following:
    * Iterate over the elements from `0` to `i - 1`. For each element `j` in the input array, do the following:
        * If `nums[i] % nums[j] == 0` and `dp[i] < dp[j] + 1`, then set `dp[i] = dp[j] + 1` and `pred[i] = j`.
5. Find the index of the element with the maximum value in the `dp` array. This index will be the index of the last element in the largest divisible subset.
6. Backtrack using the `pred` array to find the largest divisible subset.

Here is a C++ implementation of the above algorithm:
```c++
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> largestDivisibleSubset(vector<int>& nums) {
        sort(nums.begin(), nums.end());
        int n = nums.size(), maxi = 0;
        vector<int> dp(n,1), pred(n,-1), ans;
        for(int i = 1 ; i < n ; i++){
            for(int j = 0 ; j < i ; j++)
                if(nums[i] % nums[j] == 0 && dp[i] < dp[j] + 1)
                    dp[i] = dp[j]+1, pred[i] = j;
            if(dp[i] > dp[maxi]) maxi = i;
        }
        while(maxi != -1){
            ans.push_back(nums[maxi]);
            maxi = pred[maxi];
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

Example:

```c++
vector<int> nums = {1,2,3,4,5};
Solution obj;
vector<int> ans = obj.largestDivisibleSubset(nums);

for(int i = 0 ; i < ans.size() ; i++)
    cout << ans[i] << " ";
```

Output:

```
1 2 4
```