# [424. Longest Repeating Character Replacement](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-repeating-character-replacement/)

You are given a string `s` and an integer `k`. You can choose any character of the string and change it to any other uppercase English character. You can perform this operation at most `k` times.

Return the *length of the longest substring containing the same letter you can get after performing the above operations*.

 


**Example 1:**

>**Input:** s = "ABAB", k = 2<br>
**Output:** 4<br>
**Explanation:** Replace the two 'A's with two 'B's or vice versa.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** s = "AABABBA", k = 1<br>
**Output:** 4<br>
**Explanation:** Replace the one 'A' in the middle with 'B' and form "AABBBBA".<br>
The substring "BBBB" has the longest repeating letters, which is 4.
There may exists other ways to achive this answer too.
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 1e5`
- `s` consists of only uppercase English letters.
- `0 <= k <= s.length`
---
# Solution

The approach of this solution is to use a sliding window to find the longest substring of `s` that can be replaced with at most `k` characters.

The algorithm is as follows:

1. Initialize an array `alfa` to store the frequency of each character in `s`.
2. Initialize two pointers, `pos` and `i`, to the beginning of the string.
3. Initialize the maximum frequency of a character, `mfreq`, to 0.
4. Initialize the maximum length of a substring, `mx`, to 0.
5. Iterate over the string `s` from `i` to `s.size() - 1`.
    * Increment the frequency of the current character, `s[i]`, in `alfa`.
    * Update `mfreq` to the maximum frequency of a character in `alfa`.
    * If the length of the current substring, `i - pos + 1`, minus the maximum frequency of a character, `mfreq`, is greater than `k`, then:
        * Decrement the frequency of the character at `pos` in `alfa`.
        * Increment `pos`.
    * Update `mx` to the maximum length of a substring, which is `max(mx, i - pos + 1)`.
6. Return `mx`, which is the maximum length of a substring that can be replaced with at most `k` characters.

Here is a C++ implementation of the algorithm:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int characterReplacement(string s, int k) {
        int alfa[26] = {0};
        int pos = 0;
        int mfreq = 0;
        int mx = 0;
        for(int i = 0 ; i < s.size() ; i++){
            alfa[s[i]-'A']++;
            mfreq = max(mfreq, alfa[s[i]-'A']);
            if((i - pos + 1 - mfreq) > k){
                alfa[s[pos]-'A']--;
                pos++;
            }
            mx = max(mx, i - pos+1);
        }
        return mx;
    }
};
```

This C++ implementation of the algorithm is time-efficient and space-efficient. It uses O(n) time to iterate over the string and O(1) space to store the frequency of each character in `alfa`.