# [290. Word Pattern](https://leetcode.com/problems/word-pattern/)

Given a `pattern` and `a` string `s`, find if s follows the same pattern.

Here follow means a full match, such that there is a bijection between a letter in `pattern` and a non-empty word in `s`.

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** pattern = "abba", s = "dog cat cat dog"<br>
**Output:** true

**Example 2:**

> **Input:** pattern = "abba", s = "dog cat cat fish"<br>
**Output:** false

**Example 3:**

> **Input:** pattern = "aaaa", s = "dog cat cat dog"<br>
**Output:** false
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= pattern.length <= 300`
- `pattern` contains only lower-case English letters.
- `1 <= s.length <= 3000`
- `s` contains only lowercase English letters and spaces `' '`.
- `s` does not contain any leading or trailing spaces.
- All the words in `s` are separated by a single space.
---
# Solution

The approach used in the `wordPattern()` function is to use a hash table to map each word in the `split` vector to a character in the `pattern` string. A set is also used to keep track of which characters in the `pattern` string have already been mapped to a word.

Here is a more detailed explanation of the algorithm:

1. Split the input string `s` into a vector of words `split`.
2. Check if the number of words in `split` is equal to the number of characters in `pattern`. If it is not, then return `false`.
3. Create a hash table `mp` and a set `st`.
4. Iterate over the `split` vector and for each word `w`:
    * If `w` is not in `mp` and the character `pattern[i]` is not in `st`, then map `w` to `pattern[i]` in `mp` and add `pattern[i]` to `st`.
    * Otherwise, if the character mapped to `w` in `mp` is not equal to `pattern[i]`, then return `false`.
5. Return `true`.

```cpp
bool wordPattern(string &pattern, string &s) {
    string str = "";
    vector<string> split; 
    for(auto &ch : s){
        if(ch != ' '){
            str += ch;
        }else{
            split.push_back(str);
            str = "";
        }
    }
    split.push_back(str);
    
    if(split.size() != pattern.length())
        return false;
    
    unordered_map<string,char> mp;
    unordered_set<char> st;
    for(int i=0;i<split.size();i++)
    {
        if(mp.find(split[i])==mp.end() && st.find(pattern[i])==st.end())
        {
            mp[split[i]]=pattern[i];
            st.insert(pattern[i]);
        }
        else
        {
            if(mp[split[i]]!=pattern[i])
                return 0;
        }
    }
   return 1;
}
```

## Example

Here is an example of how to use the `wordPattern()` function:

```c++
string pattern = "abba";
string s = "dog cat cat dog";

bool result = wordPattern(pattern, s);

if (result) {
  cout << "True" << endl;
} else {
  cout << "False" << endl;
}
```

Output:

```
True
```

## Pros and Cons of the Hash Table Approach

The following are the pros and cons of the hash table approach to the `wordPattern()` problem:

**Pros:**

* Efficient for large inputs.
* Requires O(n) space, where `n` is the number of words in the input string.

**Cons:**

* More complex to understand and implement than the brute force approach.

## Conclusion

The hash table approach to the `wordPattern()` problem is an efficient and space-efficient way to solve the problem. It is more complex to understand and implement than the brute force approach, but it is much faster for large inputs.