# [1209. Remove All Adjacent Duplicates in String II](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-all-adjacent-duplicates-in-string-ii/)

You are given a string `s` and an integer `k`, a `k` **duplicate removal** consists of choosing `k` adjacent and equal letters from `s` and removing them, causing the left and the right side of the deleted substring to concatenate together.

We repeatedly make `k` **duplicate removals** on `s` until we no longer can.

*Return the final string after all such duplicate removals have been made. It is guaranteed that the answer is **unique***.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** s = "abcd", k = 2<br>
**Output:** "abcd"<br>
**Explanation:** There's nothing to delete.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** s = "deeedbbcccbdaa", k = 3<br>
**Output:** "aa"<br>
**Explanation:**<br> 
First delete "eee" and "ccc", get "ddbbbdaa"<br>
Then delete "bbb", get "dddaa"<br>
Finally delete "ddd", get "aa"

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** s = "pbbcggttciiippooaais", k = 2<br>
**Output:** "ps"
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 1e5`
- `2 <= k <= 1e4`
- `s` only contains lowercase English letters.
---
# Solution
The approach used in this C++ solution to the remove duplicates problem is to use a stack to keep track of the characters in the string and their counts. The algorithm is as follows:

1. Initialize a stack to keep track of the characters in the string and their counts.
2. Iterate over the string, character by character.
    * If the stack is empty, push the current character onto the stack with a count of 1.
    * If the current character is the same as the character at the top of the stack, increment the count of the character at the top of the stack.
    * Otherwise, push the current character onto the stack with a count of 1.
3. Clear the string.
4. While the stack is not empty:
    * Pop the character at the top of the stack and its count.
    * Append the character to the string `k` times.
5. Reverse the string.
6. Return the string.

Here is a C++ implementation of this algorithm:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    string removeDuplicates(string &s, int k) {
        stack<pair<char, int>> st; 
        for(auto &c : s){
            if(st.empty()){
                st.push({c,1});
            }
            else if(c == st.top().first){
                if(k == ++st.top().second)
                    st.pop();
            }else st.push({c,1});
        }
        s.clear();
        while(!st.empty()){
            int n = st.top().second;
            while(n--)
                s += st.top().first;
            st.pop();
        }
        reverse(s.begin(), s.end());
        return s;
    }
};
```

This solution is time-efficient and space-efficient. It uses O(n) time and O(n) space.