# [341. Flatten Nested List Iterator](https://leetcode.com/problems/flatten-nested-list-iterator/)

You are given a nested list of integers `nestedList`. Each element is either an integer or a list whose elements may also be integers or other lists. Implement an iterator to flatten it.

Implement the `NestedIterator` class:

- `NestedIterator(List<NestedInteger> nestedList)` Initializes the iterator with the nested list `nestedList`.
- `int next()` Returns the next integer in the nested list.
- `boolean hasNext()` Returns `true` if there are still some integers in the nested list and `false` otherwise.

Your code will be tested with the following pseudocode:

<pre>
initialize iterator with nestedList
res = []
while iterator.hasNext()
    append iterator.next() to the end of res
return res
</pre>
If `res` matches the expected flattened list, then your code will be judged as correct.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** nestedList = [[1,1],2,[1,1]]<br>
**Output:** [1,1,2,1,1]<br>
**Explanation:** By calling next repeatedly until hasNext returns false, the order of elements returned by next should be: [1,1,2,1,1].

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** nestedList = [1,[4,[6]]]<br>
**Output:** [1,4,6]<br>
**Explanation:** By calling next repeatedly until hasNext returns false, the order of elements returned by next should be: [1,4,6].

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nestedList.length <= 500`
- The values of the integers in the nested list is in the range `[-1e6, 1e6]`.
---
# Solution
The approach for this solution is to recursively flatten the nested list into a 1D vector, and then iterate over the vector to return the next integer.

The algorithm is as follows:

1. Create a recursive function called `createFlatten()`, which takes a vector of nested integers as input and returns a vector of integers as output.
2. In `createFlatten()`, iterate over the input vector and for each nested integer:
    * If the nested integer is an integer, add it to the output vector.
    * If the nested integer is a list, recursively call `createFlatten()` on the list and add the returned vector to the output vector.
3. Create a class called `NestedIterator` with two member variables:
    * A vector of integers called `flatten` to store the flattened nested list.
    * An integer called `pos` to track the current position in the `flatten` vector.
4. In the constructor for `NestedIterator`, call `createFlatten()` on the input vector of nested integers to populate the `flatten` vector.
5. Implement the `next()` and `hasNext()` methods for `NestedIterator`:
    * In `next()`, return the element at the current position in the `flatten` vector and increment `pos`.
    * In `hasNext()`, return `true` if `pos` is less than the size of the `flatten` vector and `false` otherwise.

Here is a C++ implementation of the `NestedIterator` class:

```c++
class NestedIterator {
    vector<int> flatten;
    int pos = 0;
    void createFlatten(vector<NestedInteger> &nestedList){
        for(auto &List : nestedList){
            if(List.isInteger()){
                flatten.push_back(List.getInteger());
            }else{
                createFlatten(List.getList());
            }
        }
    }
public:
    NestedIterator(vector<NestedInteger> &nestedList) {
        createFlatten(nestedList);
    }
    
    int next() {
        return flatten[pos++];
    }
    
    bool hasNext() {
        return pos < flatten.size();
    }
};
```

To use the `NestedIterator` class, simply instantiate it with the nested list that you want to iterate over. Then, you can call the `next()` and `hasNext()` methods to iterate over the flattened nested list.