# [3. Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-substring-without-repeating-characters/)

Given a string `s`, find the length of the **longest** <a title="Substring
A substring is a contiguous non-empty sequence of characters within a string.">substring</a> without repeating characters.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** s = "abcabcbb"<br>
**Output:** 3<br>
**Explanation:** The answer is "abc", with the length of 3.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** s = "bbbbb"<br>
**Output:** 1<br>
**Explanation:** The answer is "b", with the length of 1.

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** s = "pwwkew"<br>
**Output:** 3<br>
**Explanation:** The answer is "wke", with the length of 3.<br>
Notice that the answer must be a substring, "pwke" is a subsequence and not a substring.
 

**Constraints:**

- `0 <= s.length <= 5 * 1e4`
- `s` consists of English letters, digits, symbols and spaces.
---
# Solution

The approach used in this solution is to use a sliding window and a hash table. The sliding window keeps track of the current substring, and the hash table keeps track of the frequency of each character in the substring.

The algorithm is as follows:

1. Initialize the sliding window to the beginning of the string.
2. Initialize the hash table.
3. Iterate over the string, starting at the next position after the sliding window.
    * If the current character is not in the hash table, add it to the hash table and increment the size of the sliding window.
    * If the current character is in the hash table, decrement the hash table entry for the character and move the sliding window to the start of the substring that starts with the next occurrence of the character.
4. Keep track of the maximum length of the substring seen so far.
5. Return the maximum length of the substring.

Here is a C++ implementation of the above algorithm:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int lengthOfLongestSubstring(string s) {
        int n = s.length();
        if(n <= 1) return n;

        int pos = 0;
        int ml = 1;
        unordered_map<char,int> mp;
        
        for(int i = 0 ; i < n ; i++){
            
            while(mp[s[i]] == 1 && pos <= i) mp[s[pos++]]--;
            
            ml = max(ml, (i-pos)+1);
            mp[s[i]]++;
        }
        return ml;
    }
};
```

This solution is time-efficient and space-efficient. It uses O(n) time to iterate over the string and O(1) space to maintain the hash table.