# [151. Reverse Words in a String](https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-words-in-a-string/)

Given an input string `s`, reverse the order of the words.

A **word** is defined as a sequence of non-space characters. The words in s will be separated by at least one space.

Return a string of the words in reverse order concatenated by a single space.

**Note** that `s` may contain leading or trailing spaces or multiple spaces between two words. The returned string should only have a single space separating the words. Do not include any extra spaces.

 


**Example 1:**

>**Input:** s = "the sky is blue"<br>
**Output:** "blue is sky the"

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** s = "  hello world  "<br>
**Output:** "world hello"<br>
**Explanation:** Your reversed string should not contain leading or trailing spaces.

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** s = "a good   example"<br>
**Output:** "example good a"<br>
**Explanation:** You need to reduce multiple spaces between two words to a single space in the reversed string.
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 1e4`
- `s` contains English letters (upper-case and lower-case), digits, and spaces `' '`.
- There is at least **one word** in `s`.
 

**Follow-up:** If the string data type is mutable in your language, can you solve it **in-place** with `O(1)` extra space?

---
# Solution

The approach for this solution is to reverse each word in the string and then reverse the entire string.

The algorithm is as follows:

1. Create an empty string to store the reversed words.
2. Iterate over the string from the end to the beginning.
3. If the current character is a space:
    * If the current word is not empty, reverse it and add it to the reversed words string.
    * Reset the current word.
4. Otherwise, add the current character to the current word.
5. If the current word is not empty after the loop has finished iterating, reverse it and add it to the reversed words string.
6. Reverse the reversed words string and return it.

Here is a C++ implementation of the algorithm:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    string reverseWords(string s) {
        string rev;
        int l = s.length();
        string str = "";
        while(l--){
            if(s[l] == ' '){
                if(str != ""){
                    reverse(str.begin(), str.end());
                    rev += rev == "" ? str : " " + str;
                    str = "";
                }
            }else str += s[l];
        }if(str != ""){
                    reverse(str.begin(), str.end());
                    rev += rev == "" ? str : " " + str;
                }
        return rev;
    }
};
```

Example:

```c++
string s = "hello world";

Solution sol;
string rev = sol.reverseWords(s);

cout << rev << endl; // Output: dlrow olleh
```