# [13. Roman to Integer](https://leetcode.com/problems/roman-to-integer/)

Roman numerals are represented by seven different symbols: `I`, `V`, `X`, `L`, `C`, `D` and `M`.

| Symbol | Value |
|-|-|
| I |1   |
| V |5   |
| X |10  |
| L |50  |
| C |100 |
| D |500 |
| M |1000|
For example, `2` is written as `II` in Roman numeral, just two ones added together. `12` is written as `XII`, which is simply `X + II`. The number `27` is written as `XXVII`, which is `XX` + `V` + `II`.

Roman numerals are usually written largest to smallest from left to right. However, the numeral for four is not `IIII`. Instead, the number four is written as `IV`. Because the one is before the five we subtract it making four. The same principle applies to the number nine, which is written as `IX`. There are six instances where subtraction is used:

- `I` can be placed before `V` (5) and `X` (10) to make 4 and 9. 
- `X` can be placed before `L` (50) and `C` (100) to make 40 and 90. 
- `C` can be placed before `D` (500) and `M` (1000) to make 400 and 900.

Given a roman numeral, convert it to an integer.

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** s = "III"<br>
**Output:** 3<br>
**Explanation:** III = 3.

**Example 2:**

> **Input:** s = "LVIII"<br>
**Output:** 58<br>
**Explanation:** L = 50, V= 5, III = 3.

**Example 3:**

> **Input:** s = "MCMXCIV"<br>
**Output:** 1994<br>
**Explanation:** M = 1000, CM = 900, XC = 90 and IV = 4.
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 15`
- s contains only the characters (`'I'`, `'V'`, `'X'`, `'L'`, `'C'`, `'D'`, `'M'`).
- It is guaranteed that `s` is a valid roman numeral in the range `[1, 3999]`.
---
# Solution

The approach of the code is to use a lookup table to map Roman numerals to their corresponding integer values. The code also handles the special cases where a Roman numeral subtracts from the next numeral in order to form a larger number (e.g., IV = 4 and IX = 9).

The algorithm of the code is as follows:

1. Define a lookup table that maps Roman numerals to their corresponding integer values.
2. Initialize a variable `num` to store the total value of the Roman numeral.
3. Iterate over the Roman numeral string:
    * If the current value of the Roman numeral is less than the value of the next Roman numeral, then subtract the current value from `num` and add the value of the next two Roman numerals to `num`.
    * Otherwise, add the current value to `num`.
4. Return the value of `num`.

**Here is a more detailed explanation of the algorithm:**

```cpp
inline int value(string code){
    if(code == "I") return 1;
    if(code == "IV") return 4;
    if(code == "V") return 5;
    if(code == "IX") return 9;
    if(code == "X") return 10;
    if(code == "XL") return 40;
    if(code == "L") return 50;
    if(code == "XC") return 90;
    if(code == "C") return 100;
    if(code == "CD") return 400;
    if(code == "D") return 500;
    if(code == "CM") return 900;
    if(code == "M") return 1000;
    return 0;
}

public:
    int romanToInt(string s) {
        int length = s.length();
        int num = 0;
        cout<<length<<endl;

        for(int i = 0 ; i < length ; i++){
            if(value(s.substr(i,1)) < value(s.substr(i+1,1))){
                num += value(s.substr(i,2));
                i++;
            }
            else{
                num += value(s.substr(i,1));
            }
        }
        return num;
    }
}
```

The code first defines a function called `value()`, which maps a Roman numeral to its corresponding integer value. The code then defines a function called `romanToInt()`, which takes a Roman numeral string as input and returns the corresponding integer value.

The `romanToInt()` function works by iterating over the Roman numeral string and adding the value of each Roman numeral to the total value (`num`). However, there are two special cases that need to be handled:

1. If the current value of the Roman numeral is less than the value of the next Roman numeral, then the current value should be subtracted from the total value and the value of the next two Roman numerals should be added to the total value. This is because special Roman numerals like IV and IX represent larger numbers by subtracting from the next numeral.
2. If the current value of the Roman numeral is greater than or equal to the value of the next Roman numeral, then the current value should be added to the total value.

Once the code has iterated over the entire Roman numeral string, it returns the total value (`num`).

Here is an example of how the `romanToInt()` function would be used:

```cpp
Solution solution;
int integerValue = solution.romanToInt("MCMXCIV");
```

The variable `integerValue` would then contain the value 1994, which is the integer equivalent of the Roman numeral "MCMXCIV".