# [231. Power of Two](https://leetcode.com/problems/power-of-two/)

Given an integer `n`, return true if it is a power of two. Otherwise, return `false`.

An integer `n` is a power of two, if there exists an integer x such that `n == 2x`.

 

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** n = 1<br>
**Output:** true<br>
**Explanation:** 20 = 1

**Example 2:**

> **Input:** n = 16<br>
**Output:** true<br>
**Explanation:** 24 = 16

**Example 3:**

> **Input:** n = 3<br>
**Output:** false
 

**Constraints:**

- `-231 <= n <= 231 - 1`
 

**Follow up:** Could you solve it without loops/recursion?

---
# Solution

The code has two approaches to checking if a number is a power of two:

**Approach 1:**

1. Calculate the log base 2 of the number.
2. If the log base 2 is an integer, then the number is a power of two. Otherwise, the number is not a power of two.

```cpp
bool isPowerOfTwo(int n) {
    if(n<=0)
        return false;
    
    double a = log2(n);
    return ((long long)a == a)?true:false;
}
```

This approach is straightforward, but it is not the most efficient approach. Calculating the log base 2 of a number is a relatively slow operation.

**Approach 2:**

1. Use the `__builtin_popcount()` function to count the number of set bits in the binary representation of the number.
2. If the number of set bits is equal to 1, then the number is a power of two. Otherwise, the number is not a power of two.

This approach is more efficient than Approach 1 because the `__builtin_popcount()` function is a relatively fast operation.

Here is an explanation of the algorithm of Approach 2:

```cpp
bool isPowerOfTwo(int n) {
    if(n<=0)
        return false;

    // Count the number of set bits in the binary representation of the number.
    int numSetBits = __builtin_popcount(n);

    // If the number of set bits is equal to 1, then the number is a power of two.
    return numSetBits == 1;
}
```

The `__builtin_popcount()` function is a built-in function in C++ that counts the number of set bits in a number. It is a very efficient function, and it is typically much faster than calculating the log base 2 of a number.

Therefore, Approach 2 is the most efficient approach to checking if a number is a power of two.