# [69. Sqrt(x)](https://leetcode.com/problems/sqrtx/)

Given a non-negative integer `x`, return the square root of `x` rounded down to the nearest integer. The returned integer should be `non-negative` as well.

You **must not use** any built-in exponent function or operator.

- For example, do not use ``pow(x, 0.5)`` in c++ or `x ** 0.5` in python.
 

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** x = 4<br>
**Output:** 2<br>
**Explanation:** The square root of 4 is 2, so we return 2.

**Example 2:**

> **Input:** x = 8<br>
**Output:** 2<br>
**Explanation:** The square root of 8 is 2.82842..., and since we round it down to the nearest integer, 2 is returned.
 

**Constraints:**

- `0 <= x <= 231 - 1`
---
# Solution

The approach of the code is to use binary search to find the square root of the given number. Binary search works by repeatedly dividing the search space in half until the target value is found.

The algorithm of the code is as follows:

1. Initialize two variables, `s` and `m`, to 1 and the given number, respectively.
2. While `m` is greater than `s`:
    * Set `m` to the average of `s` and `m`.
    * Set `s` to the given number divided by `m`.
3. Return `m`.

Here is a more detailed explanation of the algorithm:

```cpp
int mySqrt(int x) {
    int s = 1;
    int m = x;
    while(m > s){
        m = s + (m - s)/2;
        s = x/m;
    }
    return m;
}
```

The code first initializes two variables, `s` and `m`, to 1 and the given number, respectively. The variable `s` represents the lower bound of the search space, and the variable `m` represents the upper bound of the search space.

The code then enters a while loop that continues to iterate until `m` is greater than `s`. In each iteration of the loop, the code sets `m` to the average of `s` and `m`. This effectively divides the search space in half. The code then sets `s` to the given number divided by `m`. This ensures that the square root of the given number is always between `s` and `m`.

Once the while loop terminates, the variable `m` will contain the square root of the given number. The code therefore returns `m`.

Here is an example of how the `mySqrt()` function would be used:

```
int main() {
    int x = 16;
    int squareRoot = mySqrt(x);

    cout << "The square root of " << x << " is " << squareRoot << endl;

    return 0;
}
```

Output:

```
The square root of 16 is 4
```

The `mySqrt()` function is a very efficient way to find the square root of a number. It has a time complexity of O(log n), where n is the given number. This is because the code divides the search space in half at each iteration of the while loop.