# [204. Count Primes](https://leetcode.com/problems/count-primes/)

Given an integer `n`, return the number of prime numbers that are strictly less than `n`.

 


**Example 1:**

>**Input:** n = 10<br>
**Output:** 4<br>
**Explanation:** There are 4 prime numbers less than 10, they are 2, 3, 5, 7.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** n = 0<br>
**Output:** 0

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** n = 1<br>
**Output:** 0
 

**Constraints:**

- `0 <= n <= 5 * 1e6`
---
# Solution
Sure, here is an approach and algorithm for the given solution in C++:

**Approach:**

The sieve of Eratosthenes is a simple, ancient algorithm for finding all prime numbers up to a given number n. It works by initially labeling all positive integers from 2 to n as prime numbers. Then, for each prime number p, we mark off all multiples of p as composite numbers. This process is continued until all the prime numbers have been found.

**Algorithm:**

1. Create a boolean array "prime" with n elements, where n is the input number. Initialize all elements to true.

2. Iterate over the array "prime" from index 2 to n-1.

3. For each index i, if prime[i] is true, then i is a prime number.

4. For each index j from i*i to n-1 (with increments of i), set prime[j] to false. This marks all multiples of i as composite numbers.

5. Count the number of elements in the array "prime" that are still true. This is the number of prime numbers less than n.

**C++ Implementation:**

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int countPrimes(int n) {
        vector<bool> prime(n, true);
        int count = 0;

        for (int i = 2; i < n; i++) {
            if (prime[i]) {
                count++;

                for (int j = i * i; j < n; j += i) {
                    prime[j] = false;
                }
            }
        }

        return count;
    }
};
```

This implementation of the sieve of Eratosthenes efficiently counts the number of prime numbers less than n. It has a time complexity of O(n log log n), which is significantly better than the naive approach of checking each number individually for primality.