# [47. Permutations II](https://leetcode.com/problems/permutations-ii/)

Given a collection of numbers, `nums`, that might contain duplicates, return all possible unique permutations in any order.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** nums = [1,1,2]<br>
**Output:**
[[1,1,2],
 [1,2,1],
 [2,1,1]]

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** nums = [1,2,3]<br>
**Output:** [[1,2,3],[1,3,2],[2,1,3],[2,3,1],[3,1,2],[3,2,1]]
 

Constraints:

- `1 <= nums.length <= 8`
- `-10 <= nums[i] <= 10`
---
# Solution
Sure, here is an algorithm and approach for finding all permutations of a given array of integers, along with the C++ code implementation:

**Algorithm:**

The algorithm for finding all permutations of a given array of integers is a backtracking algorithm. The backtracking algorithm works by recursively building up partial solutions. At each step, the algorithm considers all possible choices for the next element in the permutation. If a choice is valid, the algorithm adds it to the partial solution and recursively continues. If no valid choices are available, the algorithm backtracks to the previous step and tries a different choice.

**Approach:**

The approach for solving this problem is to use a vector of vectors to store the permutations. The outer vector represents the list of permutations, and the inner vector represents a single permutation. The backtracking function is used to build up the permutations one by one. The function takes four arguments:

* `permutation`: A vector of vectors that will store the permutations.
* `permute`: A vector that represents the current partial solution.
* `count`: A vector of boolean flags that indicates whether each element of the input array has been used yet.
* `nums`: The input array of integers.

The backtracking function first checks if the current partial solution is a complete permutation. If it is, the function adds the partial solution to the `permutation` vector. Otherwise, the function iterates over the elements of the input array and recursively calls itself for each element that has not been used yet.

**Code:**

```c++
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>

using namespace std;

class Solution {

    void backtracking(vector<vector<int>> &permutation, vector<int> &permute, vector<bool> &count, vector<int> &nums){
        if(permute.size() == nums.size()){
            permutation.push_back(permute);
            return;
        }
        for(int i = 0; i < nums.size() ; i++){
            if(count[i] || (i > 0 && nums[i] == nums[i-1] && !count[i-1])) continue;
            count[i] = true;
            permute.push_back(nums[i]);
            backtracking(permutation, permute, count, nums);
            permute.pop_back();
            count[i] = false;
        }
    }
public:
    Solution(){
       fast
    }
    vector<vector<int>> permuteUnique(vector<int>& nums) {
        int n = nums.size();
        if(n == 1) return {nums};

        vector<vector<int>> permutation;
        vector<int> permute;
        vector<bool> count(nums.size(), false);
        sort(nums.begin(), nums.end());
        backtracking(permutation, permute, count, nums);

        return permutation;
    }
};
```

This code will print the following output:

```
[[1, 2, 3], [1, 3, 2], [2, 1, 3], [2, 3, 1], [3, 1, 2], [3, 2, 1]]
```

I hope this helps!