# [1. Two sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum/)
Given an array of integers `nums` and an integer `target`, return indices of the two numbers such that they add up to `target`.

You may assume that each input would have *exactly one solution*, and you may not use the same element twice.

You can return the answer in any order.

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** nums = [2,7,11,15], targ
> **Output:**
> **Explanation:** Because nums[0] + nums[1] == 9, we return [0, 1].

**Example 2:**
    
> **Input:** nums = [3,2,4], target = 6
> **Output:**  [1,2]

**Example 3:**

> **Input:** nums = [3,3], target = 6
> **Output:** [0,1]
 

**Constraints:**

> `2 <= nums.length <= 104`
> `-109 <= nums[i] <= 109`
> `-109 <= target <= 109`

## Solution :


**Algorithm:**
1. Create a hash map mp that maps each number in the array to its index.
2. Iterate over the array.
    * For each number, `nums[i]`:
        * Check if the hash map contains the complement of `nums[i]`, which is `target - nums[i]`.
            * If it does, return the indices of `nums[i]` and the complement as a two-element vector.
        * Otherwise, add `nums[i]` to the hash map.
3. If no two numbers in the array add up to target, return a two-element vector with the elements `-1` and `-1`.

**Approach:**
The key idea of this solution is to use a hash map to store the numbers in the array and their corresponding indices. This allows us to quickly check if the complement of a given number is present in the hash map.

The time complexity of this solution is O(n), where `n` is the length of the array. The space complexity is O(n), which is the space used by the hash map.

Here is an implementation of the solution in C++:

    vector<int> twoSum(vector<int>& nums, int target) {
    unordered_map<int, int> mp;
    for (int i = 0; i < nums.size(); i++) {
        if (mp.count(target - nums[i])) {
        return {mp[target - nums[i]], i};
        }
        mp[nums[i]] = i;
    }
    return {-1, -1};
    }
