# [121. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock](https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock/)
You are given an array prices where `prices[i]` is the price of a given stock on the `i^th^` day.

You want to maximize your profit by choosing a single day to buy one stock and choosing a different day in the future to sell that stock.

Return the maximum profit you can achieve from this transaction. If you cannot achieve any profit, return 0.

 

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** prices = [7,1,5,3,6,4]
>
> **Output:** 5
>
> **Explanation:** Buy on day 2 (price = 1) and sell on day 5 (price = 6), profit = 6-1 = 5.
Note that buying on day 2 and selling on day 1 is not allowed because you must buy before you sell.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** prices = [7,6,4,3,1]
>
>**Output:** 0
>
>**Explanation:** In this case, no transactions are done and the max profit = 0.
 

**Constraints:**
>`1 <= prices.length <= 105`
>`0 <= prices[i] <= 104`

## Solution:

**Approach:**

The given code finds the maximum profit that can be made by buying and selling stocks at different times. The idea is to maintain the minimum price of the stock seen so far. At each step, we calculate the profit that can be made by buying the stock at the current price and selling it at the minimum price seen so far. The maximum profit is the maximum of all such profits.

**Algorithm:**
The algorithm can be implemented as follows:

1. Initialize the minimum price to the first price in the array.
2. For each price in the array:
    * Update the minimum price to the minimum of the current price and the minimum price seen so far.
    * Calculate the profit that can be made by buying the stock at the current price and selling it at the minimum price seen so far.
    * Keep track of the maximum profit.
3. Return the maximum profit.

**Implementation in C++:**

    int max (int n1,int n2){return n1>n2?n1:n2;}
    int min (int n1,int n2){return n1<n2?n1:n2;}
    int maxProfit(vector<int>&prices ){
        int ans = 0;
        int m = prices[0];
        for(int i=1;i<prices.size();i++){
            m = min(prices[i],m);
            ans = max(ans, (prices[i]-m));
        }
        return ans;
    }

***Here is an explanation of the code:***
* The function `maxProfit()` takes a vector of prices as input.
* The variable ans stores the maximum profit.
* The variable minPrice stores the minimum price seen so far.
* The for loop iterates over all the prices in the array.
    * In each iteration, we update the minPrice to the minimum of the current price and the minPrice seen so far.
    * We then calculate the profit that can be made by buying the stock at the current price and selling it at the minPrice.
    * We update the ans variable to the maximum of the ans and the profit calculated in the previous step.
* Finally, the function returns the ans variable.