# [977. Squares of a Sorted Array](https://leetcode.com/problems/squares-of-a-sorted-array/)
Given an integer array `nums` sorted in **non-decreasing** order, return an array of t**he squares of each number** sorted in *non-decreasing order*.


**Example 1:**<br>
> **Input:** nums = [-4,-1,0,3,10]<br>
> **Output:** [0,1,9,16,100]<br>
> **Explanation:** After squaring, the array becomes [16,1,0,9,100].
After sorting, it becomes [0,1,9,16,100].

**Example 2:**<br>
> **Input:** nums = [-7,-3,2,3,11]<br>
> **Output:** [4,9,9,49,121]
 

**Constraints:**

> `1 <= nums.length <= 104`<br>
> `-104 <= nums[i] <= 104`<br>
> `nums` is sorted in non-decreasing order.

***Follow up:** Squaring each element and sorting the new array is very trivial, could you find an O(n) solution using a different approach?*

## Solution
**Approach:**  The approach is to use a greedy algorithm. The greedy algorithm works as follows:

1. Initialize two pointers, `left` and `right`, pointing to the beginning and end of the array, respectively.
2. Iterate through the array from the end, starting from index `size - 1`.
3. At each iteration, compare the absolute values of `nums[left]` and `nums[right]`.
    * If the absolute value of `nums[left]` is greater than the absolute value of `nums[right]`, then add the square of `nums[left]` to the result array.
    *  Otherwise, add the square of `nums[right]` to the result array.
    * Update the pointers accordingly.
4. Once the entire array has been traversed, return the result array.

**Algorithm:**

    vector<int> sortedSquares(vector<int>& nums) {
    // Initialize two pointers.
    int left = 0, right = nums.size() - 1;

    // Create a result array.
    vector<int> result(nums.size());

    // Iterate through the array from the end.
    for (int i = nums.size() - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
        // Compare the absolute values of the elements at the pointers.
        if (abs(nums[left]) > abs(nums[right])) {
        // Add the square of the element at the left pointer to the result array.
        result[i] = nums[left] * nums[left];
        // Move the left pointer one position to the right.
        left++;
        } else {
        // Add the square of the element at the right pointer to the result array.
        result[i] = nums[right] * nums[right];
        // Move the right pointer one position to the left.
        right--;
        }
    }

    // Return the result array.
    return result;
    }