# [39. Combination Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum/)

Given an array of distinct integers `candidates` and a `target` integer target, return a list of all unique combinations of `candidates` where the chosen numbers sum to `target`. You may return the combinations in any order.

The same number may be chosen from `candidates` an unlimited number of times. Two combinations are unique if the frequency of at least one of the chosen numbers is different.

The test cases are generated such that the number of unique combinations that sum up to `target` is less than `150` combinations for the given input.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** candidates = [2,3,6,7], target = 7<br>
**Output:** [[2,2,3],[7]]<br>
**Explanation:**<br>
2 and 3 are candidates, and 2 + 2 + 3 = 7. Note that 2 can be used multiple times.<br>
7 is a candidate, and 7 = 7.<br>
These are the only two combinations.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** candidates = [2,3,5], target = 8<br>
**Output:** [[2,2,2,2],[2,3,3],[3,5]]

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** candidates = [2], target = 1<br>
**Output:** []
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= candidates.length <= 30`
- `2 <= candidates[i] <= 40`
- All elements of `candidates` are distinct.
- `1 <= target <= 40`
---
# Solution
Sure, here is an algorithm and approach for solving the combination sum problem, along with the C++ code:

**Algorithm**

The algorithm for solving the combination sum problem is to use a backtracking approach. This involves recursively exploring all possible combinations of candidates that add up to the target sum.

Here is an outline of the backtracking algorithm:

1. Initialize an empty list of results.
2. Create a recursive function that takes the following parameters:
    * A list of candidates
    * The current index in the candidates list
    * The target sum
    * The current sum
    * A list of candidates that have been chosen so far
    * A list of all results found so far
3. If the current sum is equal to the target sum, add the current list of chosen candidates to the list of results.
4. If the current sum is greater than the target sum, return.
5. For each remaining candidate, add the candidate to the list of chosen candidates and recursively call the function with the updated parameters.
6. After the recursive call returns, remove the candidate from the list of chosen candidates.
7. Return the list of results.

**Approach**

The approach to solving the combination sum problem is to use a backtracking algorithm. This algorithm is well-suited for this problem because it allows us to explore all possible combinations of candidates without having to store all of the combinations in memory.

**C++ Code**

Here is the C++ code for the backtracking algorithm:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    vector<vector<int>> combinationSum(vector<int>& candidates, int target) {
        vector<vector<int>> results;
        vector<int> chosen;

        backtracking(candidates, 0, target, 0, chosen, results);

        return results;
    }

private:
    void backtracking(vector<int>& candidates, int index, int target, int sum, vector<int>& chosen, vector<vector<int>>& results) {
        if (sum == target) {
            results.push_back(chosen);
            return;
        }

        if (sum > target) {
            return;
        }

        for (int i = index; i < candidates.size(); ++i) {
            chosen.push_back(candidates[i]);
            backtracking(candidates, i + 1, target, sum + candidates[i], chosen, results);
            chosen.pop_back();
        }
    }
};
```

This code defines a class `Solution` with a method `combinationSum` that takes a list of candidates and a target sum as input and returns a list of all unique combinations of candidates that add up to the target sum. The `backtracking` method is a recursive helper function that does the actual work of finding the combinations.

I hope this helps!