# [1710. Maximum Units on a Truck](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-units-on-a-truck/)

You are assigned to put some amount of boxes onto one truck. You are given a 2D array `boxTypes`, where `boxTypes[i] = [numberOfBoxesi, numberOfUnitsPerBoxi]`:

- `numberOfBoxesi` is the number of boxes of type `i`.
- `numberOfUnitsPerBoxi` is the number of units in each box of the type `i`.

You are also given an integer `truckSize`, which is the maximum number of boxes that can be put on the truck. You can choose any boxes to put on the truck as long as the number of boxes does not exceed `truckSize`.

Return *the maximum total number of **units** that can be put on the truck*.

 


**Example 1:**

> Input: boxTypes = [[1,3],[2,2],[3,1]], truckSize = 4<br>
**Output:** 8<br>
>Explanation: There are:
>- 1 box of the first type that contains 3 units.
>- 2 boxes of the second type that contain 2 units each.
>- 3 boxes of the third type that contain 1 unit each.
>You can take all the boxes of the first and second types, and one box of the third type.
>The total number of units will be = (1 * 3) + (2 * 2) + (1 * 1) = 8.

**Example 2:**

> Input: boxTypes = [[5,10],[2,5],[4,7],[3,9]], truckSize = 10<br>
**Output:** 91
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= boxTypes.length <= 1000`
- `1 <= numberOfBoxesi, numberOfUnitsPerBoxi <= 1000`
- `1 <= truckSize <= 10^6`
---
# Solution

The approach of the code you provided is to use a greedy algorithm. A greedy algorithm is a type of algorithm that makes the locally optimal choice at each step, with the hope that this will lead to a globally optimal solution.

In the case of the `maximumUnits()` function, the greedy algorithm works by sorting the `boxTypes` array in descending order by the number of units per box. Then, the algorithm iterates over the array, adding as many boxes of each type as possible to the truck, until the truck is full. If the truck is not full at the end of the array, the algorithm adds any remaining boxes from the last type in the array.

The following is a step-by-step explanation of the algorithm:

1. Sort the `boxTypes` array in descending order by the number of units per box.
2. Initialize a variable `unit` to track the total number of units loaded into the truck.
3. Iterate over the `boxTypes` array:
    * If the number of boxes of the current type is greater than the remaining space in the truck, add the remaining space in the truck to `unit` and break from the loop.
    * Otherwise, add the number of boxes of the current type to the truck and subtract that number from the remaining space in the truck.
4. Return `unit`.

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int maximumUnits(vector<vector<int>>& boxTypes, int truckSize) {
        sort(boxTypes.begin(), boxTypes.end(),[](auto& a, auto& b){
            return a[1] > b[1];
        });

        int unit = 0;
        for(auto &box : boxTypes){
            if(truckSize < box[0]){
                unit += (truckSize * box[1]);
                break;
            }
            unit += (box[0] * box[1]);
            truckSize -= box[0];
        }
        return unit;
    }
};
```

Here is an example of how the algorithm works:


Input: boxTypes = [[1, 3], [2, 2], [3, 1]], truckSize = 4

1. boxTypes = [[1, 3], [2, 2], [3, 1]]
2. unit = 0
3. Iterate over the `boxTypes` array:
    * The number of boxes of the first type is 1 and the remaining space in the truck is 4, so add 1 box of the first type to the truck and subtract 1 from the remaining space in the truck.
    * The number of boxes of the second type is 2 and the remaining space in the truck is 3, so add 2 boxes of the second type to the truck and subtract 2 from the remaining space in the truck.
    * The number of boxes of the third type is 3 and the remaining space in the truck is 1, so add 1 box of the third type to the truck and break from the loop.
4. Return `unit`: unit = 3 + 4 = 7

Output: 7


## Pros and Cons of the Greedy Approach

The following are the pros and cons of the greedy approach to the `maximumUnits()` problem:

**Pros:**

* Simple to understand and implement.
* Efficient for large arrays.

**Cons:**

* Does not guarantee to find the globally optimal solution.

## Conclusion

The greedy approach is a simple and efficient way to solve the `maximumUnits()` problem. However, it does not guarantee to find the globally optimal solution. There are other algorithms that can be used to find the globally optimal solution, but they are more complex to implement.