# [153. Find Minimum in Rotated Sorted Array](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-minimum-in-rotated-sorted-array/)

Suppose an array of length `n` sorted in ascending order is rotated between `1` and `n` times. For example, the array `nums = [0,1,2,4,5,6,7]` might become:

- [4,5,6,7,0,1,2] if it was rotated `4` times.
- [0,1,2,4,5,6,7] if it was rotated `7` times.

Notice that rotating an array `[a[0], a[1], a[2], ..., a[n-1]]` 1 time results in the array `[a[n-1], a[0], a[1], a[2], ..., a[n-2]]`.

Given the sorted rotated array `nums` of unique elements, return the minimum element of this array.

You must write an algorithm that runs in `O(log n)` time.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** nums = [3,4,5,1,2]<br>
**Output:** 1<br>
**Explanation:** The original array was [1,2,3,4,5] rotated 3 times.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** nums = [4,5,6,7,0,1,2]<br>
**Output:** 0<br>
**Explanation:** The original array was [0,1,2,4,5,6,7] and it was rotated 4 times.

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** nums = [11,13,15,17]<br>
**Output:** 11<br>
**Explanation:** The original array was [11,13,15,17] and it was rotated 4 times. 
 

**Constraints:**

- `n == nums.length`
- `1 <= n <= 5000`
- `-5000 <= nums[i] <= 5000`
- All the integers of `nums` are **unique**.
- `nums` is sorted and rotated between `1` and `n` times.
---
# Solution

The approach for this solution is to use binary search to find the minimum element in the sorted array. The algorithm is as follows:

1. Initialize two pointers, `low` and `high`, to point to the beginning and end of the array, respectively.
2. While `low` is less than or equal to `high`:
    * If the element at `low` is less than the element at `high`, then the minimum element has been found and the algorithm can terminate.
    * Otherwise, find the middle element of the array, `mid`, and compare it to the elements at `low` and `high`.
        * If the element at `mid` is less than or equal to the element at `low`, then the minimum element must be in the right half of the array, so set `low` to `mid + 1`.
        * Otherwise, the minimum element must be in the left half of the array, so set `high` to `mid - 1`.
3. Return the element at `low`.

The following is a C++ implementation of this algorithm:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
  int findMin(vector<int>& nums) {
    int ans = nums[0];
    int low = 0, high = nums.size() - 1;
     
    while(low <= high){
      if(nums[low] < nums[high]){
        ans = min(ans, nums[low]);
        break;
      }
      int mid = (low + high)/2;
      ans = min(ans, nums[mid]);

      if(nums[low] <= nums[mid]) low = mid + 1;
      else high = mid - 1;
    }
    return ans;
  }
}; 
```

This algorithm has a time complexity of O(log n), where n is the size of the array. This is because the algorithm halves the number of elements it needs to search each iteration.