# [209. Minimum Size Subarray Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-size-subarray-sum/)

Given an array of positive integers `nums` and a positive integer `target`, return the minimal length of a subarray whose sum is greater than or equal to `target`. If there is no such subarray, return `0` instead.

 


**Example 1:**

**Input:** target = 7, nums = [2,3,1,2,4,3]<br>
**Output:** 2<br>
**Explanation:** The subarray [4,3] has the minimal length under the problem constraint.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** target = 4, nums = [1,4,4]<br>
**Output:** 1

**Example 3:**

**Input:** target = 11, nums = [1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1]<br>
**Output:** 0
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= target <= 1e9`
- `1 <= nums.length <= 1e5`
- `1 <= nums[i] <= 1e4`
 

**Follow up:** If you have figured out the `O(n)` solution, try coding another solution of which the time complexity is `O(n log(n))`.

---
# Solution

The approach for the `minSubArrayLen()` solution in C++ is to use a sliding window. The window starts at the beginning of the array and moves to the right. At each step, the sum of the elements in the window is calculated. If the sum is greater than or equal to the target, then the length of the window is updated. The window is then shrunk by removing the element at the beginning of the window until the sum is less than the target. The algorithm is as follows:

1. Initialize the length of the subarray (`len`) to 0 and the position of the start of the window (`pos`) to 0.
2. Calculate the sum of the elements in the window (`sum`).
3. While the sum is greater than or equal to the target:
    * Update the length of the subarray (`len`) to the minimum of the current length and the length of the window.
    * Subtract the element at the beginning of the window (`nums[pos]`) from the sum.
    * Increment the position of the start of the window (`pos`).
4. Return the length of the subarray (`len`).

Here is a C++ implementation of the `minSubArrayLen()` solution:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int minSubArrayLen(int target, vector<int>& nums) {
        int len = 0;
        int pos = 0;
        int sum = 0;
        for(int i = 0 ; i < nums.size() ; i++){
            sum += nums[i];
            while(sum >= target){
                if(len == 0)
                    len = (i-pos+1);
                else len = min(len, (i-pos+1));
                sum -= nums[pos++];
            }
        }
        return len;
    }
};
```

This solution is efficient because it only needs to traverse the array once. The time complexity of the solution is O(n) and the space complexity is O(1).