# [34. Find First and Last Position of Element in Sorted Array](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-first-and-last-position-of-element-in-sorted-array/)

Given an array of integers `nums` sorted in non-decreasing order, find the starting and ending position of a given `target` value.

If `target` is not found in the array, return `[-1, -1]`.

You must write an algorithm with `O(log n)` runtime complexity.

 


**Example 1:**

>**Input:** nums = [5,7,7,8,8,10], target = 8<br>
**Output:** [3,4]

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** nums = [5,7,7,8,8,10], target = 6<br>
**Output:** [-1,-1]

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** nums = [], target = 0<br>
**Output:** [-1,-1]
 

**Constraints:**

- `0 <= nums.length <= 1e5`
- `-1e9 <= nums[i] <= 1e9`
- `nums` is a non-decreasing array.
- `-1e9 <= target <= 1e9`
---
# Solution

The `searchRange()` function in the given C++ code implements a binary search algorithm to find the range of indices where a given target element is present in a sorted array. The algorithm works as follows:

1. It initializes two pointers, `start` and `end`, to the beginning and end of the array, respectively.
2. It then calculates the middle element of the array, `mid`, using the formula `start + (end - start) / 2`.
3. It compares the target element to the middle element. If the target element is equal to the middle element, then the algorithm has found the range of indices and returns it.
4. If the target element is less than the middle element, then the algorithm sets `end = mid - 1` and repeats steps 2 and 3.
5. If the target element is greater than the middle element, then the algorithm sets `start = mid + 1` and repeats steps 2 and 3.
6. If the algorithm reaches the end of the array without finding the target element, then it returns `{-1, -1}`, indicating that the target element is not present in the array.

The `binarySearch()` function is a helper function that is used by the `searchRange()` function. It takes four arguments:

* `nums`: The sorted array to be searched.
* `start`: The index of the first element in the array to be searched.
* `end`: The index of the last element in the array to be searched.
* `target`: The element to be searched for.
* `first`: A boolean flag that indicates whether to return the index of the first occurrence of the target element or the index of the last occurrence of the target element.

The `binarySearch()` function works in a similar way to the `searchRange()` function, but it only returns the index of the target element, if it is found. Otherwise, it returns `-1`.

The following is an example of how to use the `searchRange()` function:

```c++
#include <vector>

using namespace std;

class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> searchRange(vector<int>& nums, int target) {
        int n = nums.size() - 1;
        return {binarySearch(nums, 0, n, target, true), binarySearch(nums, 0, n, target, false)};
    }

private:
    int binarySearch(vector<int>& nums, int start, int end, const int &target, const bool &first){
        int result = -1;
        while(start <= end){
            int mid = start + (end - start) / 2;
            if(nums[mid] == target){
                result = mid;
                if(first) end = mid - 1;
                else start = mid + 1;
            }
            else if(nums[mid] < target){
                start = mid + 1;
            }else end = mid - 1;
        }
        return result;
    }
};

int main() {
    vector<int> nums = {1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19};
    int target = 5;

    vector<int> range = searchRange(nums, target);

    cout << "The range of indices where " << target << " is present in the array is [" << range[0] << ", " << range[1] << "]" << endl;

    return 0;
}
```

Output:

```
The range of indices where 5 is present in the array is [2, 2]
```