# [22. Generate Parentheses](https://leetcode.com/problems/generate-parentheses/)

Given `n` pairs of parentheses, write a function to generate all combinations of well-formed parentheses.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** n = 3<br>
**Output:** ["((()))","(()())","(())()","()(())","()()()"]

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** n = 1<br>
**Output:** ["()"]
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= n <= 8`
---
# Solution
Sure, here is an algorithm and approach for generating all valid parentheses of length 2n, as well as the C++ code implementation:

**Algorithm**

The algorithm for generating valid parentheses uses a recursive backtracking approach. The function `generateParenthesis(op, open, close, parenthesis)` takes four arguments:

* `op`: A string representing the current partial parenthesis sequence
* `open`: The number of opening parentheses remaining to be added
* `close`: The number of closing parentheses remaining to be added
* `parenthesis`: A vector to store the valid parenthesis sequences

The function works by recursively generating all possible partial parenthesis sequences and then checking if the sequence is valid. If the sequence is valid, it is added to the `parenthesis` vector.

**Approach**

The approach is to use a backtracking algorithm to explore all possible ways of adding parentheses to a string. The algorithm starts with an empty string and then recursively adds parentheses until it reaches a valid parenthesis sequence. The algorithm backtracks when it reaches a dead end, which is a state where there are no valid parentheses that can be added to the string without making it invalid.

**C++ Code**

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    vector<string> generateParenthesis(int n) {
        int open = n;
        int close = n;
        vector<string> parenthesis;
        string op = "";
        genreteParenthesis(op, open, close, parenthesis);
        return parenthesis;
    }

    void genreteParenthesis(string op, int open, int close, vector<string> &parenthesis){
        if(open == 0 && close == 0){
            parenthesis.push_back(op);
            return;
        }
        if(open == close){
            string op1 = op;
            op1.push_back('(');
            genreteParenthesis(op1, open-1, close, parenthesis);
        }
        else if(open == 0){
            string op1 = op;
            op1.push_back(')');
            genreteParenthesis(op1, open, close-1, parenthesis);
        }else if(close == 0){
            string op1 = op;
            op1.push_back('(');
            genreteParenthesis(op1, open-1, close, parenthesis);
        }else{
            string op1 = op;
            string op2 = op;
            op1.push_back('(');
            op2.push_back(')');
            genreteParenthesis(op1, open-1,close,parenthesis);
            genreteParenthesis(op2, open, close-1, parenthesis);
        }
    }
};
```

This code defines a class `Solution` with a single method `generateParenthesis(int n)`, which generates all valid parentheses of length 2n. The method uses a recursive backtracking algorithm to explore all possible ways of adding parentheses to a string. The algorithm starts with an empty string and then recursively adds parentheses until it reaches a valid parenthesis sequence. The algorithm backtracks when it reaches a dead end, which is a state where there are no valid parentheses that can be added to the string without making it invalid.

I hope this helps!