# [77. Combinations](https://leetcode.com/problems/combinations/)

Given two integers `n` and `k`, return all possible combinations of k numbers chosen from the range `[1, n]`.

You may return the answer in any order.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** n = 4, k = 2<br>
**Output:** [[1,2],[1,3],[1,4],[2,3],[2,4],[3,4]]<br>
**Explanation:** There are 4 choose 2 = 6 total combinations.<br>
Note that combinations are unordered, i.e., [1,2] and [2,1] are considered to be the same combination.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** n = 1, k = 1<br>
**Output:** [[1]]<br>
**Explanation:** There is 1 choose 1 = 1 total combination.
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= n <= 20`
- `1 <= k <= n`
---
# Solution
Sure, here is an algorithm, approach, and code in C++ for generating all possible combinations of k elements from an array of n elements:

**Algorithm**

The algorithm for generating all possible combinations of k elements from an array of n elements is a backtracking algorithm. Backtracking algorithms work by recursively exploring all possible paths through a search space. In this case, the search space is the set of all possible combinations of k elements.

The algorithm starts by creating an empty list of combinations. It then creates an empty group, which is a list of k elements that will be added to the list of combinations. The algorithm then recursively calls itself to explore all possible paths through the search space. Each time the algorithm is called, it adds the current group to the list of combinations. The algorithm then tries to add the next element in the array to the group. If the group is full, then the algorithm backtracks and tries to add the next element to the previous group. The algorithm continues in this way until it has explored all possible paths through the search space.

**Approach**

The approach for generating all possible combinations of k elements from an array of n elements is to use a recursive backtracking algorithm. This algorithm is efficient and easy to implement.

**Code**

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    vector<vector<int>> combine(int n, int k) {
        vector<vector<int>> combinations;
        vector<int> group;
        combineHelper(combinations, group, n, k, 0);
        return combinations;
    }

private:
    void combineHelper(vector<vector<int>>& combinations, vector<int>& group, int n, int k, int index) {
        if (group.size() == k) {
            combinations.push_back(group);
            return;
        }

        if (n < k || index >= n) {
            return;
        }

        group.push_back(index);
        combineHelper(combinations, group, n, k, index + 1);
        group.pop_back();

        combineHelper(combinations, group, n, k, index + 1);
    }
};
```

This code implements the recursive backtracking algorithm described above. The `combineHelper()` function takes five arguments:

* `combinations`: A list of all possible combinations that have been found so far.
* `group`: The current group of elements.
* `n`: The number of elements in the array.
* `k`: The number of elements to choose from the array.
* `index`: The index of the next element in the array to consider.

The `combineHelper()` function first checks if the group is full. If it is, then the function adds the group to the list of combinations and returns. Otherwise, the function tries to add the next element in the array to the group. If the group is still not full, then the function recursively calls itself to explore the rest of the search space.

I hope this helps!