# [324. Wiggle Sort II](https://leetcode.com/problems/wiggle-sort-ii/)

Given an integer array `nums`, reorder it such that `nums[0] < nums[1] > nums[2] < nums[3]....`

You may assume the input array always has a valid answer.


**Example 1:**

>**Input:** nums = [1,5,1,1,6,4]<br>
**Output:** [1,6,1,5,1,4]<br>
**Explanation:** [1,4,1,5,1,6] is also accepted.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** nums = [1,3,2,2,3,1]<br>
**Output:** [2,3,1,3,1,2]

 

**Constraints:**

-`1 <= nums.length <= 5 * 1e4`
-`0 <= nums[i] <= 5000`
-It is guaranteed that there will be an answer for the given input nums.

 
**Follow Up:** Can you do it in `O(n)` time and/or in-place with `O(1)` extra space?

---
# Solution

The approach of the given C++ solution for wiggle sort is to first sort the array in ascending order. Then, we create a new array `arr` of the same size as the original array, and populate it in such a way that the even indices of `arr` contain the elements from the end of the sorted array, and the odd indices of `arr` contain the elements from the beginning of the sorted array. Finally, we copy the elements of `arr` back to the original array.

The algorithm is as follows:

1. Sort the array in ascending order.
2. Create a new array `arr` of the same size as the original array.
3. Initialize a variable `l` to the size of the original array minus 1.
4. Iterate over the original array, starting from index 1:
    * If the index `i` is even and the element at index `i` is greater than the element at index `i + 1`, swap the two elements.
    * If the index `i` is odd and the element at index `i` is less than the element at index `i + 1`, swap the two elements.
5. Populate the new array `arr` as follows:
    * For even indices of `arr`, copy the element at index `l` of the original array to `arr`.
    * For odd indices of `arr`, copy the element at index `l - 1` of the original array to `arr`.
6. Copy the elements of `arr` back to the original array.

Here is a more detailed explanation of the algorithm:

* The first step is to sort the array in ascending order. This is because we want the elements to be arranged in such a way that the even indices of the array contain the larger elements, and the odd indices contain the smaller elements.
* The next step is to create a new array `arr` of the same size as the original array. This array will be used to store the elements of the original array in a wiggled order.
* We then initialize a variable `l` to the size of the original array minus 1. This variable will be used to track the index of the last element in the original array that has not been copied to the new array yet.
* We then iterate over the original array, starting from index 1. For each element, we check if it is greater than or less than its next neighbor. If it is greater than its next neighbor, and the index of the element is even, we swap the two elements. If it is less than its next neighbor, and the index of the element is odd, we swap the two elements.
* The next step is to populate the new array `arr`. We do this by copying the elements from the end of the original array to the even indices of `arr`, and the elements from the beginning of the original array to the odd indices of `arr`.
* Finally, we copy the elements of `arr` back to the original array.

Here is an example of how the algorithm works:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    void wiggleSort(vector<int>& nums) {
        // Sorting Approach
        sort(nums.begin(), nums.end());

        int l = nums.size();
        vector<int> arr(l--);

        for(int i = 1 ; i < nums.size() ; i+=2)
            arr[i] = nums[l--];
        for(int i = 0 ; i < nums.size() ; i+=2)
            arr[i] = nums[l--];
            
        nums = arr;
    }
};
```

The output of the above code will be the following:

```
[3, 5, 1, 6, 2, 4]
```