# [740. Delete and Earn](https://leetcode.com/problems/delete-and-earn)

You are given an integer array nums. You want to maximize the number of points you get by performing the following operation any number of times:

- Pick any `nums[i]` and delete it to earn `nums[i]` points. Afterwards, you must delete every element equal to `nums[i] - 1` and every element equal to `nums[i] + 1`.

Return the maximum number of points you can earn by applying the above operation some number of times.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** nums = [3,4,2]<br>
**Output:** 6<br>
>**Explanation:** You can perform the following operations:<br>
>- Delete 4 to earn 4 points. Consequently, 3 is also deleted. nums = [2].
>- Delete 2 to earn 2 points. nums = [].<br>
You earn a total of 6 points.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** nums = [2,2,3,3,3,4]<br>
**Output:** 9<br>
>**Explanation:** You can perform the following operations:<br>
>- Delete a 3 to earn 3 points. All 2's and 4's are also deleted. nums = [3,3].
>- Delete a 3 again to earn 3 points. nums = [3].
>- Delete a 3 once more to earn 3 points. nums = [].<br>
You earn a total of 9 points.
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 2 * 1e4`
- `1 <= nums[i] <= 1e4`
---
# Solution
Sure, here is an approach and algorithm for the solution in C++:

**Approach:**

The problem can be solved using a dynamic programming approach. The idea is to maintain two arrays, `sum` and `dp`. The `sum` array will store the sum of all elements of the same value. The `dp` array will store the maximum value that can be obtained by deleting at most one element of each value, up to and including the current value.

**Algorithm:**

1. Initialize the `sum` and `dp` arrays.
2. Iterate over the `nums` array and update the `sum` array.
3. Initialize the `dp` array.
4. Iterate over the `nums` array, starting from index 2.
5. For each index `i`, calculate the maximum value that can be obtained by deleting at most one element of each value, up to and including the current value. This can be done by comparing the value of `dp[i-2] + sum[i]` and `dp[i-1]`. The larger of these two values will be the maximum value that can be obtained at index `i`.
6. Return the value of `dp[n-1]`.

Here is the C++ code for the solution:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int deleteAndEarn(vector<int>& nums) {
        int n = 1e4 + 1;

        vector<int> sum(n,0);
        vector<int> dp(n,0);

        for(auto num : nums)
            sum[num] += num;
        
        dp[0] = 0;
        dp[1] = sum[1];

        for(int i = 2 ; i < n ; i++)
            dp[i] = max(dp[i-2] + sum[i], dp[i-1]);
        
        return dp[n-1];
    }
};
```

I hope this helps!