# [763. Partition Labels](https://leetcode.com/problems/partition-labels/)

You are given a string `s`. We want to partition the string into as many parts as possible so that each letter appears in at most one part.

Note that the partition is done so that after concatenating all the parts in order, the resultant string should be `s`.

Return a list of integers representing the size of these parts.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** s = "ababcbacadefegdehijhklij"<br>
**Output:** [9,7,8]<br>
**Explanation:**<br>
The partition is "ababcbaca", "defegde", "hijhklij".<br>
This is a partition so that each letter appears in at most one part.<br>
A partition like "ababcbacadefegde", "hijhklij" is incorrect, because it splits s into less parts.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** s = "eccbbbbdec"<br>
**Output:** [10]
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 500`
- `s` consists of lowercase English letters.
---
# Solution
Sure, here is the algorithm, approach, and code in C++ for the partitionLabels function:

**Algorithm**

1. Initialize three variables:
    - `size`: The length of the current partition.
    - `end`: The index of the last occurrence of the current character.
    - `lastIndex`: An array of size 26, where `lastIndex[c - 'a']` stores the index of the last occurrence of character `c`.

2. Iterate over the characters of the string. For each character:
    - Increment `size`.
    - Update `end` to be the maximum of its current value and the index of the last occurrence of the current character.
    - If the current index is equal to `end`, then:
        - Add `size` to the `result` vector.
        - Reset `size` to 0.

3. Return the `result` vector.

**Approach**

The approach is to keep track of the last occurrence of each character in the string. This allows us to determine when a partition ends, and to calculate the length of each partition.

**Code**

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> partitionLabels(string s) {
        int size = 0;
        int end = 0;
        vector<int> lastIndex(26);

        for(int i = 0 ; i < s.size() ; i++)
            lastIndex[s[i] -'a'] = i;
        
        vector<int> result;

        for(int i = 0; i < s.size() ; i++){
            size++;
            end = max(end, lastIndex[s[i]-'a']);
            if(i == end){
                result.push_back(size);
                size = 0;
            }
        }
        return result;
        
    }
};
```

**Explanation of Code**

The code first initializes the three variables `size`, `end`, and `lastIndex`. The `lastIndex` array is used to store the index of the last occurrence of each character in the string.

The code then iterates over the characters of the string. For each character, the `size` variable is incremented and the `end` variable is updated to be the maximum of its current value and the index of the last occurrence of the current character. This ensures that `end` always points to the last occurrence of the current character.

If the current index is equal to `end`, then we know that we have reached the end of a partition. We therefore add `size` to the `result` vector, which stores the lengths of the partitions. We then reset `size` to 0 so that we can start counting the length of the next partition.

Finally, the code returns the `result` vector, which contains the lengths of the partitions.