# [162. Find Peak Element](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-peak-element/)

A peak element is an element that is strictly greater than its neighbors.

Given a 0-indexed integer array `nums`, find a peak element, and return its index. If the array contains multiple peaks, return the index to any of the peaks.

You may imagine that `nums[-1] = nums[n] = -∞`. In other words, an element is always considered to be strictly greater than a neighbor that is outside the array.

You must write an algorithm that runs in `O(log n)` time.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** nums = [1,2,3,1]<br>
**Output:** 2
**Explanation:** 3 is a peak element and your function should return the index number 2.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** nums = [1,2,1,3,5,6,4]<br>
**Output:** 5
**Explanation:** Your function can return either index number 1 where the peak element is 2, or index number 5 where the peak element is 6.
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 1000`
- `-2^31 <= nums[i] <= 2^31 - 1`
- `nums[i] != nums[i + 1]` for all valid `i`.
---
# Solution

The approach for the `findPeakElement()` solution is to use binary search to find the peak element in the array. The algorithm is as follows:

1. Initialize two variables, `low` and `high`, to the beginning and end of the array, respectively.
2. If the array has only one element, return the index of that element.
3. If the first element of the array is greater than the second element, return the index of the first element.
4. If the last element of the array is greater than the second-to-last element, return the index of the last element.
5. Otherwise, set `mid` to the middle index of the array.
6. If the middle element is greater than both of its neighbors, return the index of the middle element.
7. If the middle element is greater than its left neighbor but not its right neighbor, set `low` to `mid + 1` and go to step 5.
8. If the middle element is greater than its right neighbor but not its left neighbor, set `high` to `mid - 1` and go to step 5.
9. If the middle element is less than both of its neighbors, return `-1`.

The following is a C++ implementation of the `findPeakElement()` solution:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int findPeakElement(vector<int>& nums) {
        int low = 0;
        int high = nums.size()-1;
        if(high == 0) return low;

        if(nums[low] > nums[low+1]) return low;
        if(nums[high] > nums[high-1]) return high;
        low++;
        high--;
        while(low <= high){
            int mid = (high + low)/2;

            if(nums[mid] > nums[mid-1] && nums[mid] > nums[mid+1]) 
                return mid;
            
            if(nums[mid] > nums[mid-1]){
                low = mid+1;
            }else high = mid-1;
        }
        return -1;
    }
};
```

This solution has an O(log n) time complexity and O(1) space complexity.