# [875. Koko Eating Bananas](https://leetcode.com/problems/koko-eating-bananas/)

Koko loves to eat bananas. There are `n` piles of bananas, the `ith` pile has `piles[i]` bananas. The guards have gone and will come back in `h` hours.

Koko can decide her bananas-per-hour eating speed of `k`. Each hour, she chooses some pile of bananas and eats `k` bananas from that pile. If the pile has less than `k` bananas, she eats all of them instead and will not eat any more bananas during this hour.

Koko likes to eat slowly but still wants to finish eating all the bananas before the guards return.

Return the minimum integer `k` such that she can eat all the bananas within `h` hours.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** piles = [3,6,7,11], h = 8<br>
**Output:** 4

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** piles = [30,11,23,4,20], h = 5<br>
**Output:** 30

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** piles = [30,11,23,4,20], h = 6<br>
**Output:** 23
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= piles.length <= 1e4`
- `piles.length <= h <= 1e9`
- `1 <= piles[i] <= 1e9`
---
# Solution

The approach is to use binary search to find the minimum eating speed that satisfies the given condition. The algorithm is as follows:

1. Initialize the low and high pointers to the minimum and maximum values of the piles, respectively.
2. While the low pointer is less than or equal to the high pointer:
    * Calculate the mid pointer as the average of the low and high pointers.
    * Calculate the total eating time required to eat all the piles at the current eating speed.
    * If the total eating time is less than or equal to the given time, then set the high pointer to the mid pointer minus 1.
    * Otherwise, set the low pointer to the mid pointer plus 1.
3. Return the low pointer.

Here is a C++ implementation of the algorithm:

```c++
class Solution {

public:
    int minEatingSpeed(vector<int>& piles, int h) {
        int high = piles[0];
        for(auto pile : piles)
            high = max(high, pile);
        int low = 1;
        while(low <= high){
            int mid = low + (high-low)/2;
            long long eat_time = 0;
            for(auto pile:piles){
                if(pile < mid) eat_time++;
                else if(pile % mid == 0) eat_time += (pile/mid);
                else eat_time += (pile/mid) + 1;
            }
            if(eat_time <= h)
                high = mid -1;
            else low = mid + 1;
        }
        return low;
    }
};
```