# [20. Valid Parentheses] (https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-parentheses/)

Given a string `s` containing just the characters `'('`, `')'`, `'{'`, `'}'`, `'['` and `']'`, determine if the input string is valid.

An input string is valid if:

1. Open brackets must be closed by the same type of brackets.
1. Open brackets must be closed in the correct order.
1. Every close bracket has a corresponding open bracket of the same type.
 

**Example 1:**
<br>
> Input: s = "()"<br>
> Output: true

**Example 2:**
<br>
> Input: s = "()[]{}"<br>
> Output: true

**Example 3:**
<br>
> Input: s = "(]"<br>
> Output: false
 

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= s.length <= 104`
* `s` consists of parentheses only `'()[]{}'`.

## Solution

**Approach:**

The approach of the code is to use a stack to keep track of the parentheses, brackets, and braces in the string. The code first checks if the length of the string is odd. If it is, then the string is not valid, because there will be an odd number of parentheses, brackets, and braces, and therefore an unmatched pair.

The code then creates a stack and iterates over the characters in the string. If the character is a left parenthesis, bracket, or brace, then the code pushes it onto the stack. If the character is a right parenthesis, bracket, or brace, then the code pops the top element from the stack. If the popped element does not match the current character, then the string is not valid.

The code finally checks if the stack is empty. If it is, then the string is valid, because all of the parentheses, brackets, and braces have been matched. Otherwise, the string is not valid.

**Algorithm:**

The algorithm of the code can be broken down into the following steps:

    bool isValid(string s) {
        if(s.length()%2)
            return false;
    
        stack<char> check;
        for(int i = 0 ; i < s.length() ; i++){
            if(check.size() > (s.size()/2))   return false;
            
            if(s[i] == '(' || s[i] == '[' || s[i] == '{')   check.push(s[i]);
            
            else{
                if(check.empty()) return false;
                
                if((check.top() == '(' && s[i] == ')') || (check.top() == '[' && s[i] == ']') || (check.top() == '{' && s[i] == '}'))
                    check.pop();
                
                else return false;
            }
        }
        if(check.empty())
            return true;
        return false;
    }

1. Check if the length of the string is odd.
2. Create a stack.
3. Iterate over the characters in the string:
    * If the character is a left parenthesis, bracket, or brace, then push it onto the stack.
    * If the character is a right parenthesis, bracket, or brace, then pop the top element from the stack.
    * If the popped element does not match the current character, then return false.
4. Check if the stack is empty.
    * If it is, then return true.
    * Otherwise, return false.
