# [232. Implement Queue using Stacks](https://leetcode.com/problems/implement-queue-using-stacks/)

Implement a first in first out (FIFO) queue using only two stacks. The implemented queue should support all the functions of a normal queue (`push`, `peek`, `pop`, and `empty`).

**Implement the MyQueue class:**

* `void push(int x)` Pushes element x to the back of the queue.
* `int pop()` Removes the element from the front of the queue and returns it.
* `int peek()` Returns the element at the front of the queue.
* `boolean empty()` Returns `true` if the queue is empty, `false` otherwise.

**Notes:**

* You must use only standard operations of a stack, which means only `push to top`, `peek/pop from top`, `size`, and is empty operations are valid.
* Depending on your language, the stack may not be supported natively. You may simulate a stack using a list or deque (double-ended queue) as long as you use only a stack's standard operations.
 

**Example 1:**
<br>
> Input<br>
> ["MyQueue", "push", "push", "peek", "pop", "empty"]<br>
> [[], [1], [2], [], [], []]<br>
> Output<br>
> [null, null, null, 1, 1, false]<br>
> <br>
> Explanation<br>
> MyQueue myQueue = new MyQueue();<br>
> myQueue.push(1); // queue is: [1]<br>
> myQueue.push(2); // queue is: [1, 2] (leftmost is front of the queue)<br>
> myQueue.peek(); // return 1<br>
> myQueue.pop(); // return 1, queue is [2]<br>
> myQueue.empty(); // return false
 

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= x <= 9`
* At most `100` calls will be made to `push`, `pop`, `peek`, and `empty`.
* All the calls to `pop` and `peek` are valid.
 

***Follow-up:** Can you implement the queue such that each operation is [amortized](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amortized_analysis) `O(1)` time complexity? In other words, performing `n` operations will take overall `O(n)` time even if one of those operations may take longer.*

## Solution

**Brute Force Approach**

The given code implements a queue using two stacks. The `push()` operation simply pushes the element onto the first stack. The `pop()` operation first moves all the elements from the first stack to the second stack. Then, the top element of the second stack is popped and returned. The `peek()` operation is similar to the `pop()` operation, but it does not pop the top element.

The brute force approach for implementing a queue using two stacks is to use the following steps:

1. Initialize two stacks, `s1` and `s2`.
2. Push all elements onto `s1`.
3. To pop an element, move all elements from `s1` to `s2`.
4. Pop the top element from `s2`.
5. To peek an element, move all elements from `s1` to `s2`.
6. Return the top element from `s2`.

This approach is simple to implement, but it is not very efficient. The time complexity of the `push()` and `pop()` operations is `O(n)`, where n is the number of elements in the queue. The time complexity of the `peek()` operation is also `O(n)`.

A more efficient way to implement a queue using two stacks is to use the following steps:

1. Initialize two stacks, `s1` and `s2`.
2. Push all elements onto `s1`.
3. To pop an element, if `s2` is not empty, then pop the top element from `s2`. Otherwise, move all elements from `s1` to `s2` and pop the top element from `s2`.
4. To peek an element, if `s2` is not empty, then return the top element from `s2`. Otherwise, return the top element from `s1`.

This approach is more efficient than the brute force approach because it does not need to move all elements from `s1` to `s2` every time an element is popped. The time complexity of the `push()` and `pop()` operations is `O(1)`, and the time complexity of the `peek()` operation is `O(1)`.

The given code implements the brute force approach for a queue using two stacks. The time complexity of the push(), pop(), and `peek()` operations is O(n).

    class MyQueue {
        stack<int>s;
    public:
        MyQueue() {
        }
        
        void push(int x) {
            s.push(x);
        }
        
        int pop() {
            stack<int>s1;
            while(!s.empty()){
                s1.push(s.top());
                s.pop();
            }
            int tp=s1.top();
            s1.pop();
            while(!s1.empty()){
                s.push(s1.top());
                s1.pop();
            }
            return tp;
        }
        
        int peek() {
            stack<int>s1;
            while(!s.empty()){
                s1.push(s.top());
                s.pop();
            }
            int tp=s1.top();
            while(!s1.empty()){
                s.push(s1.top());
                s1.pop();
            }
            return tp;
        }
        
        bool empty() {
            return s.empty();
        }
    };

**Optimal Approach**


The approach of this code is to use two stacks to implement a queue. The `in` stack is used to store the elements that are pushed into the queue, and the `out` stack is used to store the elements that are popped from the queue. When an element is pushed into the queue, it is pushed onto the `in` stack. When an element is popped from the queue, it is popped from the `out` stack. If the `out` stack is empty, then all of the elements in the `in` stack are moved to the `out` stack before popping an element from the `out` stack.

**Algorithm:**

The algorithm of this code is as follows:

    class MyQueue {
        stack<int> in,out;
    public:
        MyQueue() {
            
        }
        
        void push(int x) {
            in.push(x);
        }
        
        int pop() {
            int val = peek();
            out.pop();
            return val;
        }
        
        int peek() {
            if(out.empty()){
                while(!in.empty()){
                    out.push(in.top());
                    in.pop();
                }
            }
            return out.top();
        }
        
        bool empty() {
            return in.empty() && out.empty();
        }
    };

1. Initialize the `in` and `out` stacks to be empty.
2. To push an element x into the queue, push x onto the `in` stack.
3. To pop an element from the queue, do the following:
    * If the `out` stack is empty, then move all of the elements from the `in` stack to the `out` stack.
    * Pop the top element from the `out` stack and return it.
4. To peek at the next element in the queue, do the following:
    * If the `out` stack is empty, then move all of the elements from the `in` stack to the `out` stack.
    * Return the top element from the `out` stack.
5. To check if the queue is empty, do the following:
    * Return true if both the `in` stack and the `out` stack are empty. Otherwise, return false.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.

Here is a diagram that illustrates the approach of this code:

```
in stack   out stack
------------  ------------
| 1 |       |       |
| 2 |       |       |
| 3 |       |       |
```

The `in` stack stores the elements 1, 2, and 3. The `out` stack is empty. To pop an element from the queue, we first check if the `out` stack is empty. Since it is empty, we move all of the elements from the `in` stack to the `out` stack. The `out` stack now stores the elements 1, 2, and 3. We can then pop the top element from the `out` stack, which is 1.
