# [392. Is Subsequence](https://leetcode.com/problems/is-subsequence/)

Given two strings `s` and `t`, return `true` if `s` is a subsequence of `t`, or `false` otherwise.

A subsequence of a string is a new string that is formed from the original string by deleting some (can be none) of the characters without disturbing the relative positions of the remaining characters. (i.e., `"ace"` is a subsequence of `"abcde"` while `"aec"` is not).

 

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** s = "abc", t = "ahbgdc"<br>
**Output:** true

**Example 2:**

> **Input:** s = "axc", t = "ahbgdc"<br>
**Output:** false
 

**Constraints:**

- `0 <= s.length <= 100`
- `0 <= t.length <= 104`
- `s` and `t` consist only of lowercase English letters.
 

**Follow up:** Suppose there are lots of incoming `s`, say `s1, s2, ..., sk` where `k >= 109`, and you want to check one by one to see if t has its subsequence. In this scenario, how would you change your code?

---
# Solution

**Approach:**

The approach of the code is to check if the string `s` is a subsequence of the string `t`. A subsequence of a string is a sequence that can be obtained by deleting some characters (possibly none) from the string without changing the order of the remaining characters.

**Algorithm:**

The algorithm of the code is as follows:

1. Check if the string `s` is empty. If it is, then it is a subsequence of any string, so return `true`.
2. Check if the strings `s` and `t` have the same length. If they do, then they are equal, so return `true`.
3. Initialize two variables `check` and `j`. `check` will be used to keep track of the number of characters in `s` that have been matched so far, and `j` will be used to track the index of the current character in `t`.
4. Iterate over the characters in `t`.
    * If the current character in `t` is equal to the `j`th character in `s`, then increment `check` and `j`.
    * Otherwise, reset `j` to 0.
5. If `check` is equal to the length of `s`, then return `true`. Otherwise, return `false`.

**Here is a more detailed explanation of the algorithm:**
```cpp
bool isSubsequence(string s, string t) {
    if(s == "")
        return true;
    
    if(s.length() == t.length())
        return s == t;
    
    int check = 0;
    int j = 0 ;
    for(int i = 0 ; i < t.length() ; i++){
        if(s[j] == t[i]){
            j++;
            check++;
        }
    }

    return check == s.length();
}
```

* In step 1, we check if the string `s` is empty. If it is, then it is a subsequence of any string, so we can return `true` immediately.
* In step 2, we check if the strings `s` and `t` have the same length. If they do, then they are equal, so we can return `true` immediately.
* In step 3, we initialize the variables `check` and `j`. `check` will be used to keep track of the number of characters in `s` that have been matched so far, and `j` will be used to track the index of the current character in `t`.
* In step 4, we iterate over the characters in `t`.
    * In each iteration, we check if the current character in `t` is equal to the `j`th character in `s`. If it is, then we increment `check` and `j`. This means that we have matched one more character from `s` in `t`.
    * Otherwise, we reset `j` to 0. This means that we have to start over from the beginning of `s`.
* In step 5, we check if `check` is equal to the length of `s`. If it is, then we have matched all of the characters in `s` in `t`, so we return `true`. Otherwise, we return `false`.