# [557. Reverse Words in a String III](https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-words-in-a-string-iii/)

Given a string `s`, reverse the order of characters in each word within a sentence while still preserving whitespace and initial word order.

 

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** s = "Let's take LeetCode contest"<br>
**Output:** "s'teL ekat edoCteeL tsetnoc"

**Example 2:**

> **Input:** s = "God Ding"<br>
**Output:** "doG gniD"
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 5 * 104`
- `s` contains printable ASCII characters.
- `s` does not contain any leading or trailing spaces.
- There is at least one word in `s`.
- All the words in `s` are separated by a single space.

---
# Solution

**Approach:**

The approach is to scan the string from left to right, and reverse each word as we encounter it. A word is defined as a sequence of characters that are not spaces.

**Algorithm:**

1. Initialize two pointers, `idx` and `i`. `idx` points to the start of the current word, and `i` points to the current character in the string.
2. Scan the string from left to right.
    * If the current character is a space, move `idx` to the next character.
    * If the current character is not a space, move `i` to the next character.
    * If `i` is at the end of the string or if the current character is a space, reverse the characters between `idx` and `i`.
    * Set `idx` to the next character after `i`.
3. Return the reversed string.

**Here is a more detailed explanation of each step:**
```cpp
string reverseWords(string s) {
    int idx = 0;
    for(int i = 0 ; i <= s.length() ; i++){
        if(s[i] == ' ' || i == s.length()){
            if(i-idx > 1)
                reverse(s.begin()+idx, s.begin()+i);
            idx = ++i;
        }
    }
    return s;
}
```
1. The first step is to initialize the two pointers. `idx` is initialized to 0, which means that it points to the first character in the string. `i` is initialized to 0, which means that it points to the current character in the string.
2. The second step is to scan the string from left to right. At each step, we check the current character. If the current character is a space, we move `idx` to the next character. This means that `idx` will point to the start of the next word. If the current character is not a space, we move `i` to the next character. This means that `i` will point to the current character in the word.
3. If `i` is at the end of the string or if the current character is a space, we reverse the characters between `idx` and `i`. This means that we reverse the order of the characters in the current word.
4. We set `idx` to the next character after `i`. This means that `idx` will point to the start of the next word in the next iteration of the loop.
5. Finally, we return the reversed string.