# [628. Maximum Product of Three Numbers](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-product-of-three-numbers/)

Given an integer array `nums`, *find three numbers whose product is maximum and return the maximum product*.

 

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** nums = [1,2,3]<br>
**Output:** 6

**Example 2:**

> **Input:** nums = [1,2,3,4]<br>
**Output:** 24

**Example 3:**

> **Input:** nums = [-1,-2,-3]<br>
**Output:** -6
 

**Constraints:**

- `3 <= nums.length <= 104`
- `-1000 <= nums[i] <= 1000`
---
# Solution

The approach of the code is to find the three largest and the three smallest numbers in the array. The maximum product of three numbers will be either the product of the three largest numbers or the product of the two smallest numbers and the largest number.

The algorithm of the code is as follows:

1. Initialize three variables `m1`, `m2`, and `m3` to store the three largest numbers in the array.
2. Initialize two variables `mi1` and `mi2` to store the two smallest numbers in the array.
3. Iterate over the array and keep track of the three largest numbers and the two smallest numbers.
4. Return the maximum of the product of the three largest numbers and the product of the two smallest numbers and the largest number.

Here is a more detailed explanation of the algorithm:

```cpp
int maximumProduct(vector<int>& nums) {
    if(nums.size() == 3)
        return nums[0] * nums[1] * nums[2];
    
    int n = nums.size();
    int m1 = nums[0];
    int m2 = INT_MIN;
    int m3 = INT_MIN;
    int mi1 = nums[0];
    int mi2 = INT_MAX;
    
    for(int i = 1; i < n ; i++){
        if(mi1 > nums[i]){
            mi2 = mi1;
            mi1 = nums[i];
        }else if(mi2 > nums[i])
            mi2 = nums[i]; 
        if(m1 < nums[i]){
            m3 = m2;
            m2 = m1;
            m1 = nums[i];
        }else if(m2 < nums[i]){
            m3 = m2;
            m2 = nums[i];
        }else if(m3 < nums[i])
            m3 = nums[i];
    }
    return max((m1*m2*m3),(mi1*mi2*m1));
}
```

The code first initializes three variables `m1`, `m2`, and `m3` to store the three largest numbers in the array. It also initializes two variables `mi1` and `mi2` to store the two smallest numbers in the array.

The code then iterates over the array and keeps track of the three largest numbers and the two smallest numbers. It does this by comparing each element in the array to the current values of `m1`, `m2`, `m3`, `mi1`, and `mi2`. If the element is greater than `m1`, then the code updates `m3` to be the old value of `m2`, `m2` to be the old value of `m1`, and `m1` to be the new element. If the element is greater than `m2` but less than or equal to `m1`, then the code updates `m3` to be the old value of `m2` and `m2` to be the new element. If the element is greater than `m3` but less than or equal to `m2`, then the code updates `m3` to be the new element.

Similarly, the code compares each element in the array to `mi1` and `mi2`. If the element is less than `mi1`, then the code updates `mi2` to be the old value of `mi1` and `mi1` to be the new element. If the element is less than `mi2` but greater than or equal to `mi1`, then the code updates `mi2` to be the new element.

Once the code has iterated over the entire array, it returns the maximum of the product of the three largest numbers and the product of the two smallest numbers and the largest number.

Here is an example of how the `maximumProduct()` function would be used:

```
vector<int> nums = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5};
int maximumProduct = maximumProduct(nums);
```

The variable `maximumProduct` would then contain the value 60, which is the maximum product of three numbers in the array `nums`.