# [128. Longest Consecutive Sequence](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-consecutive-sequence)

Given an unsorted array of integers `nums`, return the length of the longest consecutive elements sequence.

You must write an algorithm that runs in `O(n)` time.


**Example 1:**

>**Input:** nums = [100,4,200,1,3,2]<br>
**Output:** 4<br>
**Explanation:** The longest consecutive elements sequence is [1, 2, 3, 4]. Therefore its length is 4.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** nums = [0,3,7,2,5,8,4,6,0,1]<br>
**Output:** 9

**Constraints:**

- `0 <= nums.length <= 1e5`
- `-1e9 <= nums[i] <= 1e9`
---
# Solution

There are two approaches to solving the problem of finding the longest consecutive sequence in C++:

**Approach 1:**

1. Sort the input array in ascending order.
2. Initialize a current element and a length variable.
3. Iterate over the sorted array.
    * If the current element is equal to the previous element, skip it.
    * If the current element is greater than the previous element by 1, increment the length variable.
    * Otherwise, reset the length variable to 1.
    * Update the longest consecutive sequence variable if the current length is greater than it.
4. Return the longest consecutive sequence variable.

**Algorithm:**

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int longestConsecutive(vector<int>& nums) {
        sort(nums.begin(), nums.end());

        int curr = INT_MIN;
        int length = 0;
        int longest = 0;
        for(auto num : nums){
            if(num == curr)
                continue;
            if(num > curr+1) length = 0;
            curr = num;
            longest = max(longest, ++length);
        }
        return longest;
    }
};
```

**Approach 2:**

1. Create a hash set to store the elements of the input array.
2. Iterate over the hash set.
    * If the current element is not present in the hash set, it is the starting point of a new consecutive sequence.
    * Count the number of consecutive elements in the sequence, starting with the current element.
    * Update the longest consecutive sequence variable if the current sequence is longer than it.
3. Return the longest consecutive sequence variable.

**Algorithm:**

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int longestConsecutive(vector<int>& nums) {
        unordered_set<int> st(nums.begin(), nums.end());
        int longest = 0;
        for(auto it : st){
            if(st.find(it-1) == st.end()){
                int length = 1;
                int num = it;
                while(st.find(num+1) != st.end()){
                    num++;
                    length++;
                }
                longest = max(longest, length);
            }
        }
        return longest;
    }
};
```

**Which approach is better?**

The second approach is generally more efficient than the first approach, as it avoids sorting the input array. However, the first approach may be simpler to implement, especially for beginners.