# [229. Majority Element II](https://leetcode.com/problems/majority-element-ii/)

Given an integer array of size `n`, find all elements that appear more than `⌊ n/3 ⌋` times.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** nums = [3,2,3]<br>
**Output:** [3]

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** nums = [1]<br>
**Output:** [1]

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** nums = [1,2]<br>
**Output:** [1,2]
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 5 * 1e4`
- `-1e9 <= nums[i] <= 1e9`
 

**Follow up:** Could you solve the problem in linear time and in `O(1)` space?

---
# Solution

The approach used in the given C++ solution to find the majority element in an array is to use the **Boyer-Moore majority voting algorithm**. This algorithm works by keeping track of two candidates for the majority element, and their respective counts. The algorithm iterates over the array, and for each element, it increments the count of the candidate that is equal to the element, or decrements the counts of both candidates if the element is not equal to either of them. If the count of either candidate becomes greater than the size of the array divided by three, then that candidate is returned as the majority element.

The algorithm can be summarized as follows:

1. Initialize two candidates for the majority element, `candidate1` and `candidate2`, and their respective counts, `count1` and `count2`, to 0.
2. Iterate over the array:
    * If `count1` is 0 and the current element is not equal to `candidate2`, then set `candidate1` to the current element and `count1` to 1.
    * If `count2` is 0 and the current element is not equal to `candidate1`, then set `candidate2` to the current element and `count2` to 1.
    * If the current element is equal to `candidate1`, then increment `count1`.
    * If the current element is equal to `candidate2`, then increment `count2`.
    * Otherwise, decrement both `count1` and `count2`.
3. If either `count1` or `count2` is greater than the size of the array divided by three, then return the corresponding candidate as the majority element.
4. Otherwise, no majority element exists.

The given C++ solution implements the Boyer-Moore majority voting algorithm as follows:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> majorityElement(vector<int>& nums) {
        int elm1 = INT_MIN;
        int elm2 = INT_MIN;

        int c1 = 0,c2 = 0;

        for(auto num : nums){
            if(c1 == 0 && num != elm2){
                c1 = 1;
                elm1 = num;
            }
            else if(c2 == 0 && num != elm1){
                c2 = 1;
                elm2 = num;
            }
            else if(num == elm1){
                c1++;
            }else if(num == elm2){
                c2++;
            }else{
                c1--;
                c2--;
            }
        }
        c1 = 0;
        c2 = 0;
        for(auto num : nums){
            if(num == elm1) c1++;
            if(num == elm2) c2++;
        }
        int majority = nums.size()/3;
        nums.clear();
        if(c1 > majority) nums.push_back(elm1);
        if(c2 > majority) nums.push_back(elm2);

        return nums;
    }
};
```

The algorithm first initializes the two candidates for the majority element, `elm1` and `elm2`, and their respective counts, `c1` and `c2`, to 0. Then, it iterates over the array and for each element, it increments the count of the candidate that is equal to the element, or decrements the counts of both candidates if the element is not equal to either of them.

After the first iteration, the algorithm checks if the count of either `elm1` or `elm2` is greater than the size of the array divided by three. If it is, then that candidate is returned as the majority element. Otherwise, the algorithm iterates over the array again and counts the number of occurrences of each candidate.

After the second iteration, the algorithm checks if the count of either `elm1` or `elm2` is still greater than the size of the array divided by three. If it is, then that candidate is returned as the majority element. Otherwise, no majority element exists.

The algorithm returns a vector containing the majority elements, if any. If there are no majority elements, the algorithm returns an empty vector.