# [380. Insert Delete GetRandom O(1)](https://leetcode.com/problems/insert-delete-getrandom-o1/)

Implement the `RandomizedSet` class:

- `RandomizedSet()` Initializes the `RandomizedSet` object.
- `bool insert(int val)` Inserts an item `val` into the set if not present. Returns `true` if the item was not present, false otherwise.
- `bool remove(int val)` Removes an item `val` from the set if present. Returns true if the item was present, `false` otherwise.
- `int getRandom()` Returns a random element from the current set of elements (it's guaranteed that at least one element exists when this method is called). Each element must have the same probability of being returned.

You must implement the functions of the class such that each function works in average `O(1)` time complexity.

 

**Example 1:**

>**Input**<br>
["RandomizedSet", "insert", "remove", "insert", "getRandom", "remove", "insert", "getRandom"]<br>
[[], [1], [2], [2], [], [1], [2], []]<br>
**Output**<br>
[null, true, false, true, 2, true, false, 2]<br>
**Explanation**<br>
RandomizedSet randomizedSet = new RandomizedSet();
randomizedSet.insert(1); // Inserts 1 to the set. Returns true as 1 was inserted successfully.<br>
randomizedSet.remove(2); // Returns false as 2 does not exist in the set.<br>
randomizedSet.insert(2); // Inserts 2 to the set, returns true. Set now contains [1,2].<br>
randomizedSet.getRandom(); // getRandom() should return either 1 or 2 randomly.<br>
randomizedSet.remove(1); // Removes 1 from the set, returns true. Set now contains [2].<br>
randomizedSet.insert(2); // 2 was already in the set, so return false.<br>
randomizedSet.getRandom(); // Since 2 is the only number in the set, getRandom() will always return 2.
 

**Constraints:**

- `-2^31 <= val <= 2^31 - 1`
- At most `2 * 1e5` calls will be made to `insert`, `remove`, and `getRandom`.
- There will be at least one element in the data structure when `getRandom` is called.
---
# Solution

This C++ solution uses a hash table and a vector to implement a randomized set. The hash table is used to store the value-to-index mappings, and the vector is used to store the values themselves.

The `insert()` method first checks if the value is already present in the hash table. If it is, the method returns `false`. Otherwise, the method adds the value to the hash table and the vector.

The `remove()` method first checks if the value is present in the hash table. If it is not, the method returns `false`. Otherwise, the method gets the index of the value from the hash table. It then swaps the value at that index with the last value in the vector. It then pops the last value from the vector and removes the value-to-index mapping from the hash table.

The `getRandom()` method simply returns a random element from the vector.

This solution has the following advantages:

* It is efficient for all three operations: insert, remove, and getRandom.
* It is easy to implement.

The main disadvantage of this solution is that it requires O(n) space, where n is the number of elements in the set.

Here is a more detailed description of the algorithm:

```c++
class RandomizedSet {
    unordered_map<int, int> mp;
    vector<int> values;
public:
    RandomizedSet() {
        
    }
    
    bool insert(int val) {
        if(mp.find(val) != mp.end()){
            return false;
        }
        mp[val] = values.size();
        values.push_back(val);
        return true;
    }
    
    bool remove(int val) {
        if(mp.find(val) == mp.end())
            return false;
        
        int idx = mp[val];
        values[idx] =  values.back();
        values.pop_back();
        mp[values[idx]] = idx;
        mp.erase(val);
        return true;
    }
    
    int getRandom() {
        return values[rand() % values.size()];
    }
};
```

The `insert()` method first checks if the value is already present in the hash table. If it is, the method returns `false`. Otherwise, the method adds the value to the hash table and the vector.

```c++
bool insert(int val) {
    if(mp.find(val) != mp.end()){
        return false;
    }
    mp[val] = values.size();
    values.push_back(val);
    return true;
}
```

The `remove()` method first checks if the value is present in the hash table. If it is not, the method returns `false`. Otherwise, the method gets the index of the value from the hash table. It then swaps the value at that index with the last value in the vector. It then pops the last value from the vector and removes the value-to-index mapping from the hash table.

```c++
bool remove(int val) {
    if(mp.find(val) == mp.end())
        return false;
    
    int idx = mp[val];
    values[idx] =  values.back();
    values.pop_back();
    mp[values[idx]] = idx;
    mp.erase(val);
    return true;
}
```

The `getRandom()` method simply returns a random element from the vector.

```c++
int getRandom() {
    return values[rand() % values.size()];
}
```

This solution is efficient for all three operations: insert, remove, and getRandom. The insert and remove operations take O(1) time on average, assuming that the hash table is properly implemented. The getRandom operation takes O(1) time.

This solution is also easy to implement. The only tricky part is the remove operation, which needs to update the value-to-index mappings in the hash table when an element is removed from the vector.