# [1094. Car Pooling](https://leetcode.com/problems/car-pooling/)

There is a car with `capacity` empty seats. The vehicle only drives east (i.e., it cannot turn around and drive west).

You are given the integer `capacity` and an array trips where `trips[i] = [numPassengersi, fromi, toi]` indicates that the `ith` trip has `numPassengersi` passengers and the locations to pick them up and drop them off are `fromi` and `toi` respectively. The locations are given as the number of kilometers due east from the car's initial location.

Return `true` if it is possible to pick up and drop off all passengers for all the given trips, or `false` otherwise.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** trips = [[2,1,5],[3,3,7]], capacity = 4<br>
**Output:** false

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** trips = [[2,1,5],[3,3,7]], capacity = 5<br>
**Output:** true 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= trips.length <= 1000`
- `trips[i].length == 3`
- `1 <= numPassengersi <= 100`
- `0 <= fromi < toi <= 1000`
- `1 <= capacity <= 1e5`
---
# Solution

Sure, here is an explanation of the algorithm and approach of the provided code in C++:

**Algorithm**

The algorithm is designed to determine whether it is possible to carpool multiple people given a set of trips and a car capacity. It works by maintaining a prefix array, which stores the net change in the number of passengers at each stop. For each trip, the algorithm increments the prefix array at the destination stop and decrements it at the origin stop. This effectively tracks the cumulative number of passengers at each stop. The algorithm then iterates through the prefix array and checks whether the number of passengers at any stop exceeds the car capacity. If so, the algorithm returns false; otherwise, it returns true.

**Approach**

The approach taken by the algorithm is to utilize a prefix array to efficiently track the cumulative number of passengers at each stop. This eliminates the need to iterate through the entire list of trips for each stop, which would be inefficient. By maintaining the prefix array, the algorithm can quickly determine whether the number of passengers at any stop exceeds the car capacity.

**C++ Implementation**

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    bool carPooling(vector<vector<int>>& trips, int capacity) {
        int prefix[1001] = {0};

        for(auto trip : trips){
            prefix[trip[1]] += trip[0];
            prefix[trip[2]] -= trip[0];
        }

        int in_car = 0;
        for(int i = 0 ; i < 1001 ; i++){
            in_car += prefix[i];
            if(in_car > capacity)
                return false;
        }
        return true;
    }
};
```

**Explanation of the Code**

The code begins by defining a `class Solution` with a public member function `carPooling`. The `carPooling` function takes two arguments: a vector of vectors of integers representing the trips and an integer representing the car capacity.

The function first declares a prefix array of size 1001. This array will store the net change in the number of passengers at each stop. The index of the array corresponds to the stop number, and the value of the array at that index represents the net change in passengers at that stop.

The function then iterates through the list of trips. For each trip, the function increments the prefix array at the destination stop and decrements it at the origin stop. This effectively tracks the cumulative number of passengers at each stop.

Finally, the function iterates through the prefix array and checks whether the number of passengers at any stop exceeds the car capacity. If so, the function returns false; otherwise, it returns true.

This code is an efficient and concise implementation of the algorithm for determining whether it is possible to carpool multiple people given a set of trips and a car capacity.