# [373. Find K Pairs with Smallest Sums](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-k-pairs-with-smallest-sums/)

You are given two integer arrays `nums1` and `nums2` sorted in non-decreasing order and an integer `k`.

Define a pair `(u, v)` which consists of one element from the first array and one element from the second array.

Return the `k` pairs `(u1, v1), (u2, v2), ..., (uk, vk)` with the smallest sums.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** nums1 = [1,7,11], nums2 = [2,4,6], k = 3<br>
**Output:** [[1,2],[1,4],[1,6]]<br>
**Explanation:** The first 3 pairs are returned from the sequence: [1,2],[1,4],[1,6],[7,2],[7,4],[11,2],[7,6],[11,4],[11,6]

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** nums1 = [1,1,2], nums2 = [1,2,3], k = 2<br>
**Output:** [[1,1],[1,1]]<br>
**Explanation:** The first 2 pairs are returned from the sequence: [1,1],[1,1],[1,2],[2,1],[1,2],[2,2],[1,3],[1,3],[2,3]

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** nums1 = [1,2], nums2 = [3], k = 3<br>
**Output:** [[1,3],[2,3]]<br>
**Explanation:** All possible pairs are returned from the sequence: [1,3],[2,3]
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums1.length, nums2.length <= 1e5`
- `-1e9 <= nums1[i], nums2[i] <= 1e9`
- `nums1` and `nums2` both are sorted in non-decreasing order.
- `1 <= k <= 1e4`
---
# Solution

Sure, here is an algorithm and approach for the provided code:

**Algorithm**

The algorithm takes three vectors as input: `nums1`, `nums2`, and `k`. The algorithm first initializes a priority queue `pq` and then iterates over the elements of `nums1`, pushing each element along with the first element of `nums2` to the priority queue. The priority queue is sorted by the sum of the two elements.

While the priority queue is not empty and `k` is not zero, the algorithm pops the top element from the priority queue and adds it to the answer vector `ans`. The algorithm then checks if the second element of the popped pair is less than the size of `nums2` and, if so, pushes the sum of the first element of `nums1` and the next element of `nums2` to the priority queue.

**Approach**

The approach is to use a priority queue to keep track of the k smallest sums of the elements of `nums1` and `nums2`. The priority queue is sorted by the sum of the two elements, so the smallest sum will always be at the top of the queue. The algorithm pops the top element of the queue and adds it to the answer vector `ans`. The algorithm then checks if the second element of the popped pair is less than the size of `nums2` and, if so, pushes the sum of the first element of `nums1` and the next element of `nums2` to the priority queue.

**Writing Algorithm and Approach in C++**

The algorithm and approach can be written in C++ as follows:

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    vector<vector<int>> kSmallestPairs(vector<int>& nums1, vector<int>& nums2, int k) {
        vector<vector<int>>ans;
        int n=nums1.size(),m=nums2.size();
        priority_queue<pair<int,pair<int,int>>,vector<pair<int,pair<int,int>>>,greater<pair<int,pair<int,int>>>>pq;
        for(int i=0;i<n;i++){
            pq.push({nums1[i]+nums2[0],{i,0}});
        }
        while(!pq.empty() && k--){
            auto it=pq.top();
            pq.pop();
            int i=it.second.first,j=it.second.second;
            ans.push_back({nums1[i],nums2[j]});
            if(j+1<m) pq.push({nums1[i]+nums2[j+1],{i,j+1}});
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

I hope this helps!