# [55. Jump Game](https://leetcode.com/problems/jump-game/)

You are given an integer array `nums`. You are initially positioned at the array's first index, and each element in the array represents your maximum jump length at that position.

Return `true` if you can reach the last index, or `false` otherwise.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** nums = [2,3,1,1,4]<br>
**Output:** true<br>
**Explanation:** Jump 1 step from index 0 to 1, then 3 steps to the last index.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** nums = [3,2,1,0,4]<br>
**Output:** false<br>
**Explanation:** You will always arrive at index 3 no matter what. Its maximum jump length is 0, which makes it impossible to reach the last index.
 

Constraints:

- `1 <= nums.length <= 1e4`
- `0 <= nums[i] <= 1e5`
---
# Solution

**Approach:**

The approach used in the given solution is to greedily jump to the farthest position that can be reached from the current position. This is done by maintaining a variable `mx` which stores the maximum distance that can be jumped from the current position. At each step, we compare `mx` with the current position and if `mx` is greater than the current position, then we can reach the end of the array. Otherwise, we jump to the farthest position that can be reached from the current position and update `mx` accordingly.

**Algorithm:**

1. Initialize two variables `i` and `mx`, where `i` is the current position and `mx` is the maximum distance that can be jumped from the current position.
2. Check if the array has only one element. If yes, then return `true`.
3. While `i` is less than the length of the array:
    * If `mx` is equal to `0` and the current element of the array is also equal to `0`, then return `false`.
    * Update `mx` to the maximum of the current value of `mx` and the current element of the array.
    * If `mx + i` is greater than or equal to the length of the array minus `1`, then return `true`.
    * Increment `i` by `1` and decrement `mx` by `1`.
4. Return `false`.

**C++ code:**

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    bool canJump(vector<int>& nums) {
        int i = 0;
        int n = nums.size();
        if(n == 1) return true;
        int mx = nums[i];
        while(i <= n){
            if(mx == 0 && nums[i] == 0) return false;
            mx = max(mx,nums[i]);

            if(mx+i >= n-1)
                return true;
            i++;
            mx--;
        }
        return false;
    }
};
```

**Example:**

```c++
vector<int> nums = {2, 3, 1, 1, 4};

Solution obj;

bool canJump = obj.canJump(nums);

if(canJump)
    cout << "Can jump to the end of the array." << endl;
else
    cout << "Cannot jump to the end of the array." << endl;
```

Output:

```
Can jump to the end of the array.
```