# [131. Palindrome Partitioning](https://leetcode.com/problems/palindrome-partitioning/)

Given a string `s`, partition `s` such that every substring of the partition is a palindrome. Return all possible palindrome partitioning of `s`.


**Example 1:**

>**Input:** s = "aab"<br>
**Output:** [["a","a","b"],["aa","b"]]

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** s = "a"<br>
**Output:** [["a"]]

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 16`
- `s` contains only lowercase English letters.
---
# Solution

Sure. Here is an approach and algorithm for the given solution in C++:

**Approach:**

The given problem can be solved using a backtracking algorithm. The algorithm starts at the beginning of the string and tries to partition the string into palindromes. At each step, the algorithm tries to find the longest palindrome that starts at the current position. If a palindrome is found, the algorithm recursively tries to partition the remaining string. If no palindrome is found, the algorithm backtracks and tries a different partition.

**Algorithm:**

```c++
class Solution {
    bool isPalindrome(string &s, int i, int j) {
        while (i <= j) {
            if (s[i++] != s[j--]) return false;
        }
        return true;
    }

    void partitioning(string &s, const int &idx, vector<string> &path, vector<vector<string>> &res) {
        if (idx == s.size()) {
            res.push_back(path);
            return;
        }

        for (int i = idx; i < s.size(); i++) {
            if (isPalindrome(s, idx, i)) {
                path.push_back(s.substr(idx, i - idx + 1));
                partitioning(s, i + 1, path, res);
                path.pop_back();
            }
        }
    }

public:
    vector<vector<string>> partition(string s) {
        vector<vector<string>> res;
        vector<string> path;
        partitioning(s, 0, path, res);
        return res;
    }
};
```

**Explanation:**

The `isPalindrome` function checks whether a given substring is a palindrome. The `partitioning` function recursively tries to partition the string into palindromes. The `partition` function calls the `partitioning` function to partition the entire string.

**Complexity:**

The time complexity of the algorithm is O(2^n), where n is the length of the string. This is because the algorithm can try all possible partitions of the string. The space complexity of the algorithm is O(n), where n is the length of the string. This is because the algorithm needs to store the current partition of the string.