# [394. Decode String](https://leetcode.com/problems/decode-string/)

Given an encoded string, return its decoded string.

The encoding rule is: `k[encoded_string]`, where the `encoded_string` inside the square brackets is being repeated exactly `k` times. Note that `k` is guaranteed to be a positive integer.

You may assume that the input string is always valid; there are no extra white spaces, square brackets are well-formed, etc. Furthermore, you may assume that the original data does not contain any digits and that digits are only for those repeat numbers, `k`. For example, there will not be input like `3a` or `2[4]`.

The test cases are generated so that the length of the output will never exceed 1e5.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** s = "3[a]2[bc]"<br>
**Output:** "aaabcbc"

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** s = "3[a2[c]]"<br>
**Output:** "accaccacc"

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** s = "2[abc]3[cd]ef"<br>
**Output:** "abcabccdcdcdef"
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 30`
- `s` consists of lowercase English letters, digits, and square brackets `'[]'`.
- `s` is guaranteed to be a valid input.
- All the integers in `s` are in the range `[1, 300]`.
---
# Solution

The approach and algorithm for the C++ solution to the decode string problem is as follows:

**Approach:**

The approach is to use a recursive function to decode the string. The function will return the decoded string, starting at the current index.

**Algorithm:**

1. Initialize a decoded string `decodes`.
2. Initialize a number string `num`.
3. Iterate over the string, starting at the current index:
    * If the current character is a digit, add it to the number string `num`.
    * If the current character is an opening bracket `[`, recursively decode the string starting at the next index and add the decoded string to `decodes` the specified number of times (given by `num`).
    * If the current character is a closing bracket `]`, return `decodes`.
    * Otherwise, add the current character to `decodes`.
4. Return `decodes`.

**C++ implementation:**

```c++
class Solution {
int i = 0;
public:
    string decodeString(string &s) {
        string decodes = "";
        string num = "";
        for( ; i < s.length() ; i++){
            if(isdigit(s[i])){
                while(isdigit(s[i]))
                    num += s[i++];
                i++;
                int times = stoi(num);
                string temp = decodeString(s);
                while(times--)
                    decodes += temp;
                num = "";
            }else if(s[i] == ']')
                return decodes;
            else decodes += s[i];
        }
        return decodes;
    }
};
```

This solution is efficient both in terms of time and space. It uses O(n) time to decode the string, where `n` is the length of the string. It uses O(1) space to store the decoded string and the number string.