# [378. Kth Smallest Element in a Sorted Matrix](https://leetcode.com/problems/kth-smallest-element-in-a-sorted-matrix/)

Given an `n x n` matrix where each of the rows and columns is sorted in ascending order, return the kth smallest element in the matrix.

Note that it is the `kth` smallest element in the sorted order, not the `kth` distinct element.

You must find a solution with a memory complexity better than `O(n^2)`.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** matrix = [[1,5,9],[10,11,13],[12,13,15]], k = 8<br>
**Output:** 13<br>
**Explanation:** The elements in the matrix are [1,5,9,10,11,12,13,13,15], and the 8th smallest number is 13

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** matrix = [[-5]], k = 1<br>
**Output:** -5
 

**Constraints:**

- `n == matrix.length == matrix[i].length`
- `1 <= n <= 300`
- `-1e9 <= matrix[i][j] <= 1e9`
- All the rows and columns of `matrix` are guaranteed to be sorted in non-decreasing order.
- `1 <= k <= n^2`

**Follow up:**

- Could you solve the problem with a constant memory (i.e., `O(1)` memory complexity)?
- Could you solve the problem in `O(n)` time complexity? The solution may be too advanced for an interview but you may find reading [this paper](http://www.cse.yorku.ca/~andy/pubs/X+Y.pdf) fun.
---
# Solution
Sure, here is an approach and algorithm for the given C++ solution:

**Approach:**

The approach is to use a priority queue to store the elements in the matrix. The priority queue will be used to keep track of the smallest element in the matrix, and the kth smallest element can be found by popping the smallest element from the priority queue k times.

**Algorithm:**

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int kthSmallest(vector<vector<int>>& matrix, int k) {
        priority_queue<int> pq;
        int n = matrix.size();
        for(auto row : matrix)
            for(auto element : row)
                pq.push(element);
        
        k = (n*n)-k;
        while(k--) pq.pop();
        return pq.top();
    }
};
```

**Steps:**

1. Create a priority queue to store the elements in the matrix.
2. Iterate over the matrix and push each element into the priority queue.
3. Pop the smallest element from the priority queue k times.
4. Return the top element of the priority queue, which will be the kth smallest element in the matrix.

**Complexity Analysis:**

The time complexity of the algorithm is O(n^2), where n is the size of the matrix. This is because the algorithm iterates over the matrix twice, once to push the elements into the priority queue and once to pop the smallest element out k times. The space complexity of the algorithm is O(n), where n is the size of the matrix. This is because the priority queue will store all of the elements in the matrix at once.

I hope this helps! Please let me know if you have any other questions.