# [767. Reorganize String](https://leetcode.com/problems/reorganize-string/)

Given a string `s`, rearrange the characters of `s` so that any two adjacent characters are not the same.

Return any possible rearrangement of `s` or return `""` if not possible.


**Example 1:**

>**Input:** s = "aab"<br>
**Output:** "aba"

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** s = "aaab"<br>
**Output:** ""
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 500`
- `s` consists of lowercase English letters.
---
# Solution

Sure, I can help you with that.

**Approach**

The approach taken in this solution is to first count the frequency of each character in the string. Then, the characters are sorted in descending order of frequency. If the frequency of the most frequent character is greater than half the length of the string, then no rearrangement is possible and an empty string is returned. Otherwise, a string is initialized with all blank characters. The characters are then iterated over, and each character is placed in the next available blank position in the string. The positions are updated by adding 2 to the current position after each character is placed. This ensures that the characters with the highest frequency are spaced at least two characters apart.

**Algorithm**

The algorithm for this solution is as follows:

1. Count the frequency of each character in the string.
2. Sort the characters in descending order of frequency.
3. If the frequency of the most frequent character is greater than half the length of the string, then return an empty string.
4. Initialize a string with all blank characters.
5. Iterate over the characters, and place each character in the next available blank position in the string.
6. Update the positions by adding 2 to the current position after each character is placed.
7. Return the resulting string.

**Implementation**

The C++ code for this solution is as follows:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    string reorganizeString(string &s) {
        unordered_map<char, int> freq_map;
        for (char &c : s) 
            freq_map[c]++;
        

        vector<char> sorted_chars;
        for (auto& pair : freq_map) {
            sorted_chars.push_back(pair.first);
        }

        sort(sorted_chars.begin(), sorted_chars.end(), [&](char a, char b) {
            return freq_map[a] > freq_map[b];
        });

        if (freq_map[sorted_chars[0]] > (s.length() + 1) / 2) {
            return "";
        }

        string res(s.length(), ' ');
        int i = 0;
        for (char c : sorted_chars) {
            for (int j = 0; j < freq_map[c]; ++j) {
                if (i >= s.length()) {
                    i = 1;
                }
                res[i] = c;
                i += 2;
            }
        }

        return res;
    }
};
```

This code will first count the frequency of each character in the string. Then, it will sort the characters in descending order of frequency. If the frequency of the most frequent character is greater than half the length of the string, then no rearrangement is possible and an empty string is returned. Otherwise, a string is initialized with all blank characters. The characters are then iterated over, and each character is placed in the next available blank position in the string. The positions are updated by adding 2 to the current position after each character is placed. This ensures that the characters with the highest frequency are spaced at least two characters apart.