# [67. Add Binary](https://leetcode.com/problems/add-binary/)
Given two binary strings `a` and `b`, return their *sum as a binary string*.

 

**Example 1:**

> **Input:** a = "11", b = "1"<br>
**Output:** "100"

**Example 2:**

> **Input:** a = "1010", b = "1011"<br>
**Output:** "10101"
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= a.length, b.length <= 104`
- `a` and `b` consist only of `'0'` or `'1'` characters.
- Each string does not contain leading zeros except for the zero itself.
---
# Solution

The approach of the code is to add the two binary strings from right to left, carrying over any extra bits. The code also handles the case where the two binary strings have different lengths.

**The algorithm of the code is as follows:**

1. Initialize two pointers, `al` and `bl`, to point to the last characters of the two binary strings, respectively.
2. Initialize a variable `c` to store the carry bit.
3. Initialize a string `res` to store the result of the addition.
4. While `al` or `bl` is greater than or equal to 0:
    * Get the values of the current characters in the two binary strings.
    * Add the two values and the carry bit together.
    * If the sum is equal to 3, then add a `1` to the result and set the carry bit to 1.
    * If the sum is equal to 2, then add a `0` to the result and set the carry bit to 1.
    * Otherwise, add the sum to the result and set the carry bit to 0.
5. If the carry bit is equal to 1, then add a `1` to the result.
6. Return the result string.

**Here is a more detailed explanation of the algorithm:**

```cpp
string addBinary(string &a, string &b) {
        int al = a.length()-1;
        int bl = b.length()-1;
        string res = "";
        short c = 0;
        while(al >= 0 || bl >= 0){
            short u = al >= 0 ? a[al--]-'0' : 0;
            short d = bl >= 0 ? b[bl--]-'0' : 0;
            if(u+d+c == 3)
                res = '1' + res;
            else if(u+d+c == 2){
                res = '0' + res;
                c = 1;
            }
            else{
                res = (char)((u+d+c)+'0') + res;
                c = 0;
            }
        }
        if(c)
            res = '1' + res;
        return res;
    }
```

The code first initializes the two pointers, `al` and `bl`, to point to the last characters of the two binary strings, respectively. The code also initializes a variable `c` to store the carry bit and a string `res` to store the result of the addition.

The code then enters a while loop, which iterates while either `al` or `bl` is greater than or equal to 0. At each iteration of the loop, the code gets the values of the current characters in the two binary strings and adds them together with the carry bit. If the sum is equal to 3, then the code adds a `1` to the result and sets the carry bit to 1. If the sum is equal to 2, then the code adds a `0` to the result and sets the carry bit to 1. Otherwise, the code adds the sum to the result and sets the carry bit to 0.

After the while loop has finished iterating, the code checks if the carry bit is equal to 1. If it is, then the code adds a `1` to the result. The code then returns the result string.

Here is an example of how the `addBinary()` function would be used:

```cpp
string a = "1010";
string b = "1101";
string result = addBinary(a, b);
```

The variable `result` would then contain the string "10111", which is the sum of the two binary strings `a` and `b`.