# [260. Single Number III](https://leetcode.com/problems/single-number-iii/)

Given an integer array `nums`, in which exactly two elements appear only once and all the other elements appear exactly twice. Find the two elements that appear only once. You can return the answer in any order.

You must write an algorithm that runs in linear runtime complexity and uses only constant extra space.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** nums = [1,2,1,3,2,5]<br>
**Output:** [3,5]<br>
**Explanation:**  [5, 3] is also a valid answer.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** nums = [-1,0]<br>
**Output:** [-1,0]

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** nums = [0,1]<br>
**Output:** [1,0]

**Constraints:**

- 2 <= nums.length <= 3 * 1e4
- -2^31 <= nums[i] <= 2^31 - 1
- Each integer in `nums` will appear twice, only two integers will appear once.
---
# Solution
Sure, here is an algorithm and approach for solving the problem of finding two single numbers in an array, along with the C++ code implementation:

**Algorithm**

The algorithm utilizes the concept of XOR operation to identify the two single numbers. The XOR operation has the property that when two identical numbers are XORed together, the result is 0. This property can be exploited to find the two single numbers by XORing all the elements of the array. The resulting value will be the XOR of the two single numbers.

To separate the two single numbers, we can identify the least significant bit (LSB) that is set in the XORed value. This LSB will be set in one of the single numbers and not in the other. We can then partition the array into two subsets based on whether the LSB of each element is set or not. The single numbers will be in opposite subsets.

**Approach**

The approach involves the following steps:

1. XOR all the elements of the array to find the XOR of the two single numbers.
2. Identify the least significant bit (LSB) that is set in the XORed value.
3. Partition the array into two subsets based on whether the LSB of each element is set or not.
4. XOR the elements in each subset to find the single numbers.

**C++ Code Implementation**

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> singleNumber(vector<int>& nums) {
        long diff = 0;
        for(auto num : nums)
            diff ^= num;
        
        diff &= -diff;

        int n1 = 0,n2 = 0;

        for(auto num : nums){
            if((num & diff) == 0)
                n1 ^= num;
            else n2 ^= num;
        }

        return {n1, n2};
    }
};
```

This code implementation follows the described algorithm and approach to identify the two single numbers in the given array. It utilizes the XOR operation and bit manipulation techniques to achieve efficient and accurate results.