# [583. Delete Operation for Two Strings](https://leetcode.com/problems/delete-operation-for-two-strings/)

Given two strings `word1` and `word2`, return the minimum number of steps required to make `word1` and `word2` the same.

In one step, you can delete exactly one character in either string.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** word1 = "sea", word2 = "eat"<br>
**Output:** 2<br>
**Explanation:** You need one step to make "sea" to "ea" and another step to make "eat" to "ea".

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** word1 = "leetcode", word2 = "etco"<br>
**Output:** 4
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= word1.length, word2.length <= 500`
- `word1` and `word2` consist of only lowercase English letters.
---
# Solution

**Approach**

The approach for the given solution is to use dynamic programming to find the minimum distance between two strings. The idea is to build a table `dp` where `dp[i][j]` represents the minimum distance between the prefixes of length `i` and `j` of the two strings.

The table is built recursively as follows:

```
dp[i][j] =
  if i == 0 or j == 0:
    0
  else:
    if word1[i - 1] == word2[j - 1]:
      1 + dp[i - 1][j - 1]
    else:
      max(dp[i - 1][j], dp[i][j - 1])
```

The base cases are when either of the strings is empty, in which case the minimum distance is 0. Otherwise, the minimum distance is either 1 plus the minimum distance between the prefixes of length `i - 1` and `j - 1` of the two strings, or the maximum of the minimum distance between the prefix of length `i - 1` of the first string and the entire second string, and the minimum distance between the entire first string and the prefix of length `j - 1` of the second string.

Once the table is built, the minimum distance between the two strings is given by `dp[n][m]`, where `n` and `m` are the lengths of the two strings, respectively.

**Algorithm**

The following algorithm implements the above approach in C++:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int minDistance(string word1, string word2) {
        int n = word1.size(), m = word2.size();
        int dp[n + 1][m + 1];

        for (int i = 0; i <= n; i++) {
            for (int j = 0; j <= m; j++) {
                if (i == 0 || j == 0) {
                    dp[i][j] = 0;
                } else {
                    if (word1[i - 1] == word2[j - 1]) {
                        dp[i][j] = 1 + dp[i - 1][j - 1];
                    } else {
                        dp[i][j] = max(dp[i - 1][j], dp[i][j - 1]);
                    }
                }
            }
        }

        return n + m - 2 * dp[n][m];
    }
};
```

**Example**

Consider the following example:

```c++
string word1 = "abc";
string word2 = "def";

Solution solution;
int minDistance = solution.minDistance(word1, word2);

cout << minDistance << endl;
```

Output:

```
5
```

The minimum distance between the two strings is 5, which is the sum of the lengths of the two strings minus twice the length of the longest common substring, which is empty in this case.