# [518. Coin Change II](https://leetcode.com/problems/coin-change-ii/)

You are given an integer array `coins` representing coins of different denominations and an integer `amount` representing a total amount of money.

Return the number of combinations that make up that amount. If that amount of money cannot be made up by any combination of the coins, return 0.

You may assume that you have an infinite number of each kind of coin.

The answer is guaranteed to fit into a signed 32-bit integer.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** amount = 5, coins = [1,2,5]<br>
**Output:** 4<br>
**Explanation:** there are four ways to make up the amount:
5=5<br>
5=2+2+1<br>
5=2+1+1+1<br>
5=1+1+1+1+1

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** amount = 3, coins = [2]<br>
**Output:** 0<br>
**Explanation:** the amount of 3 cannot be made up just with coins of 2.

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** amount = 10, coins = [10]<br>
**Output:** 1
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= coins.length <= 300`
- `1 <= coins[i] <= 5000`
- All the values of `coins` are unique.
- `0 <= amount <= 5000`
---
# Solution

The approach used in the given C++ solution to the coin change problem is dynamic programming. Dynamic programming is a technique used to solve problems by breaking them down into smaller subproblems and then storing the solutions to those subproblems in a table. This allows us to avoid recalculating the solutions to the same subproblems multiple times.

The algorithm works by creating a table `dp` of size `amount+1`, where `amount` is the amount of money we are trying to make change for. The table `dp[i]` represents the number of ways to make change for `i` cents using the given coins.

We initialize the table `dp` by setting `dp[0] = 1`. This is because there is only one way to make change for 0 cents: do not use any coins.

Next, we iterate over the coins `coins` and for each coin `coin`, we iterate over the values `j` from `coin` to `amount`. For each value `j`, we check if we can make change for `j` cents by using one of the given coins. If we can, then we add 1 to `dp[j]`. This is because there is one more way to make change for `j` cents: use one `coin` coin.

The algorithm terminates when we have iterated over all of the coins and all of the values `j` from `coin` to `amount`.

The following is a more detailed explanation of the algorithm:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int change(int amount, vector<int>& coins) {
        vector<int> dp(amount+1);
        dp[0] = 1;

        // Iterate over the coins
        for (int i = 0; i < coins.size(); i++) {
            // For each coin, iterate over the values from the coin to the amount
            for (int j = coins[i]; j <= amount; j++) {
                // Check if we can make change for the current value using the current coin
                if (j >= coins[i]) {
                    // If we can, then add 1 to the number of ways to make change for the current value
                    dp[j] += dp[j - coins[i]];
                }
            }
        }

        // Return the number of ways to make change for the amount
        return dp[amount];
    }
};
```

This algorithm is asymptotically efficient, as it only needs to calculate the solutions to the subproblems once. The time complexity of the algorithm is O(amount * coins.size()), and the space complexity is O(amount).