# [503. Next Greater Element II]()

Given a circular integer array `nums` (i.e., the next element of `nums[nums.length - 1]` is `nums[0]`), return the **next greater number** for every element in `nums`.

The **next greater number** of a number `x` is the first greater number to its traversing-order next in the array, which means you could search circularly to find its next greater number. If it doesn't exist, return `-1` for this number.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** nums = [1,2,1]<br>
**Output:** [2,-1,2]<br>
**Explanation:** The first 1's next greater number is 2;<br> 
The number 2 can't find next greater number. <br>
The second 1's next greater number needs to search circularly, which is also 2.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** nums = [1,2,3,4,3]<br>
**Output:** [2,3,4,-1,4]
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 1e4`
- `-109 <= nums[i] <= 1e9`
---
# Solution
The approach used in the solution you provided is to use a stack to store the elements of the array that have not yet been processed. The algorithm is as follows:

1. Create a stack and initialize it to be empty.
2. Iterate over the array from right to left.
    * While the stack is not empty and the top element of the stack is less than or equal to the current element, pop the top element of the stack.
    * If the stack is empty, set the next greater element of the current element to be itself.
    * Otherwise, set the next greater element of the current element to be the top element of the stack.
    * Push the current element onto the stack.
3. Iterate over the array from right to left again.
    * If the next greater element of the current element is equal to the current element, set the next greater element of the current element to be -1.
4. Return the next greater element array.

Here is a C++ implementation of the algorithm:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> nextGreaterElements(vector<int>& nums) {
        stack<int> st;
        int pos = -1;
        int n = nums.size();
        vector<int> nge(n);
        for(int i = n-1 ; i >= 0 ; i--){
            while(!st.empty() && st.top() <= nums[i])
                st.pop();
            
            if(st.empty()){
                nge[i] = nums[i];
                pos = i;
            }
            
            else nge[i] = st.top();
            
            st.push(nums[i]);
        }
        for(int i = n-1 ; i >= pos ; i--){
            if(nge[i] == nums[i]){
                while(!st.empty() && st.top() <= nums[i])
                    st.pop();
                
                if(st.empty()) nge[i] = -1;
                
                else nge[i] = st.top();
            }
        }
        return nge;
    }
};
```

This implementation is time-efficient and space-efficient. It uses O(n) time to iterate over the array twice and O(n) space to store the next greater element array and the stack.