# [173. Binary Search Tree Iterator](https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-search-tree-iterator/)

Implement the `BSTIterator` class that represents an iterator over the [in-order traversal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_traversal#In-order_(LNR)) of a binary search tree (BST):

- `BSTIterator(TreeNode root)` Initializes an object of the `BSTIterator` class. The `root` of the BST is given as part of the constructor. The pointer should be initialized to a non-existent number smaller than any element in the BST.
- `boolean hasNext()` Returns `true` if there exists a number in the traversal to the right of the pointer, otherwise returns `false`.
- `int next()` Moves the pointer to the right, then returns the number at the pointer.

Notice that by initializing the pointer to a non-existent smallest number, the first call to `next()` will return the smallest element in the BST.

You may assume that `next()` calls will always be valid. That is, there will be at least a next number in the in-order traversal when `next()` is called.

 

**Example 1:**


>**Input**<br>
["BSTIterator", "next", "next", "hasNext", "next", "hasNext", "next", "hasNext", "next", "hasNext"]<br>
[[[7, 3, 15, null, null, 9, 20]], [], [], [], [], [], [], [], [], []]<br>
**Output**<br>
[null, 3, 7, true, 9, true, 15, true, 20, false]
>
>**Explanation**<br>
BSTIterator bSTIterator = new BSTIterator([7, 3, 15, null, null, 9, 20]);<br>
bSTIterator.next();    // return 3<br>
bSTIterator.next();    // return 7<br>
bSTIterator.hasNext(); // return True<br>
bSTIterator.next();    // return 9<br>
bSTIterator.hasNext(); // return True<br>
bSTIterator.next();    // return 15<br>
bSTIterator.hasNext(); // return True<br>
bSTIterator.next();    // return 20<br>
bSTIterator.hasNext(); // return False
 

**Constraints:**

- The number of nodes in the tree is in the range `[1, 1e5]`.
- `0 <= Node.val <= 1e6`
- At most `1e5` calls will be made to `hasNext`, and `next`.
 

**Follow up:**

- Could you implement `next()` and `hasNext()` to run in average `O(1)` time and use `O(h)` memory, where `h` is the height of the tree?
---
# Solution

The approach used in this solution is to use a stack to store the nodes of the binary search tree in the order that they would be visited in an in-order traversal. The algorithm is as follows:

1. Initialize a stack `st` and push the root node of the binary search tree onto the stack.
2. While the stack is not empty:
    * Pop the top node from the stack and store it in `node`.
    * Push `node`'s right child onto the stack.
    * Set `node`'s left and right children to `NULL`.
    * Return `node`'s value.
3. If the stack is empty, then there are no more nodes to visit and the algorithm terminates.

This approach and algorithm are efficient because they only require a single stack to store the nodes of the binary search tree. The algorithm also has a constant time complexity for the `next()` and `hasNext()` methods.

Here is a C++ implementation of the BSTIterator class:

```c++
class BSTIterator {
    stack<TreeNode*> st;
    void push(TreeNode *root){
        while(root){
            st.push(root);
            root = root->left;
        }
    }
public:
    BSTIterator(TreeNode* root) {
        push(root);
    }
    
    int next() {
        TreeNode *node = st.top();
        st.pop();
        push(node->right);
        node->left = NULL;
        node->right = NULL;
        return node->val;
    }
    
    bool hasNext() {
        return !st.empty();
    }
};
```

To use the BSTIterator class, you would first create an instance of the class, passing in the root node of the binary search tree that you want to iterate over. Then, you can call the `next()` method to get the next element in the in-order traversal of the tree. The `hasNext()` method can be used to check if there are any more elements in the traversal.

Here is an example of how to use the BSTIterator class:

```c++
TreeNode* root = new TreeNode(5);
root->left = new TreeNode(3);
root->right = new TreeNode(7);

BSTIterator iterator(root);

while (iterator.hasNext()) {
    cout << iterator.next() << endl;
}
```

Output:

```
3
5
7
```