# [198. House Robber](https://leetcode.com/problems/house-robber/)

You are a professional robber planning to rob houses along a street. Each house has a certain amount of money stashed, the only constraint stopping you from robbing each of them is that adjacent houses have security systems connected and it will automatically contact the police if two adjacent houses were broken into on the same night.

Given an integer array `nums` representing the amount of money of each house, return the maximum amount of money you can rob tonight without alerting the police.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** nums = [1,2,3,1]<br>
**Output:** 4<br>
**Explanation:** Rob house 1 (money = 1) and then rob house 3 (money = 3).<br>
Total amount you can rob = 1 + 3 = 4.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** nums = [2,7,9,3,1]<br>
**Output:** 12<br>
**Explanation:** Rob house 1 (money = 2), rob house 3 (money = 9) and rob house 5 (money = 1).<br>
Total amount you can rob = 2 + 9 + 1 = 12.
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 100`
- `0 <= nums[i] <= 400`
---
# Solution
**Approach:**

The given problem is a variant of the House Robber problem, where we can't rob the first and last house. This problem can be solved using dynamic programming.

**Algorithm:**

1. Define a function `tabSolver(nums)` that takes an array of integers `nums` as input and returns the maximum amount of money that can be stolen.
2. Initialize two variables `prev1` and `prev2` to 0.
3. Iterate over the array `nums`. For each element `num`, update `prev1` to be the maximum of the current value of `prev2` and the sum of the current value of `num` and the previous value of `prev1`.
4. Update `prev2` to be the previous value of `prev1`.
5. Return the final value of `prev1`.

**C++ Implementation:**

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int rob(vector<int>& nums) {
        if (nums.size() == 1) {
            return nums[0];
        }

        // Return the maximum of the two solutions
        return max(tabSolver(vector<int>(nums.begin(), nums.end() - 1)),
                   tabSolver(vector<int>(nums.begin() + 1, nums.end())));
    }

private:
    int tabSolver(vector<int> &nums){
        int n = nums.size();
        int prev1 = 0;
        int prev2 = 0;
        for (auto &num : nums) {
            int tmp = prev1;
            prev1 = max(prev2 + num, prev1);
            prev2 = tmp;
        }
        return prev1;
    }
};
```

**Explanation:**

The `rob` function first checks if the input array has only one element. If so, it returns the value of that element. Otherwise, it calls the `tabSolver` function twice, once for the subarray excluding the first element and once for the subarray excluding the last element. It then returns the maximum of the two results.

The `tabSolver` function takes an array of integers `nums` as input and returns the maximum amount of money that can be stolen. It initializes two variables `prev1` and `prev2` to 0. It then iterates over the array `nums`. For each element `num`, it updates `prev1` to be the maximum of the current value of `prev2` and the sum of the current value of `num` and the previous value of `prev1`. This is because either we include the current element in our robbery or we don't. If we include it, then the maximum amount of money we can steal is the current value of `num` plus the maximum amount of money we could steal from the previous non-adjacent house, which is stored in `prev2`. If we don't include it, then the maximum amount of money we can steal is the same as the maximum amount of money we could steal from the previous house, which is stored in `prev1`. Finally, the function updates `prev2` to be the previous value of `prev1` and returns the final value of `prev1`.

This code implements a dynamic programming algorithm to solve the House Robber problem with the constraint that we can't rob the first and last house. The algorithm is efficient and runs in time O(n), where n is the number of houses.
