# [213. House Robber](https://leetcode.com/problems/house-robber-ii/)

You are a professional robber planning to rob houses along a street. Each house has a certain amount of money stashed. All houses at this place are arranged in a circle. That means the first house is the neighbor of the last one. Meanwhile, adjacent houses have a security system connected, and **it will automatically contact the police if two adjacent houses were broken into on the same night**.

Given an integer array `nums` representing the amount of money of each house, return the maximum amount of money you can rob tonight without alerting the police.

 


**Example 1:**

>**Input:** nums = [2,3,2]<br>
**Output:** 3<br>
**Explanation:** You cannot rob house 1 (money = 2) and then rob house 3 (money = 2), because they are adjacent houses.

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** nums = [1,2,3,1]<br>
**Output:** 4<br>
**Explanation:** Rob house 1 (money = 1) and then rob house 3 (money = 3).<br>
Total amount you can rob = 1 + 3 = 4.

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** nums = [1,2,3]<br>
**Output:** 3
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 100`
- `0 <= nums[i] <= 1000`
---
# Solution
**Approach**

The given problem is a variation of the House Robber problem. The House Robber problem is a classic dynamic programming problem that asks for the maximum amount of money that can be stolen from a row of houses, given that the thief cannot rob adjacent houses.

In this variation of the problem, the thief is allowed to rob either the first or the last house. This means that the problem can be divided into two subproblems:

* **Subproblem 1:** Robbing all the houses except the first and the last.
* **Subproblem 2:** Robbing all the houses except the second and the last.

The maximum amount of money that can be stolen is the maximum of the solutions to these two subproblems.

**Algorithm**

The following algorithm solves the given problem:

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int rob(vector<int>& nums) {
        int n = nums.size();

        if(n == 1)
            return nums[0];
        
        vector<int> first, second;

        for(int i = 0 ; i < n ;i++){
            if(i != n-1 )
                first.push_back(nums[i]);
            if(i != 0)
                second.push_back(nums[i]);
        }

        return max(tabSolver(first), tabSolver(second));
    }

    int tabSolver(vector<int> &nums){
        int n = nums.size();
        int first = nums[0];
        int second = 0;

        for(int i = 1 ; i < n ; i++){
            int inc = second + nums[i];
            int ext = first + 0;

            int ans = max(inc, ext);
            second = first;
            first = ans;
        }
        return first;
    }
};
```