# [91. Decode Ways](https://leetcode.com/problems/decode-ways/)

A message containing letters from `A-Z` can be encoded into numbers using the following mapping:

><pre>
>'A' -> "1"
>'B' -> "2"
>...
>'Z' -> "26"
></pre>

To decode an encoded message, all the digits must be grouped then mapped back into letters using the reverse of the mapping above (there may be multiple ways). For example, `"11106"` can be mapped into:

- `"AAJF"` with the grouping `(1 1 10 6)`
- `"KJF"` with the grouping `(11 10 6)`
Note that the grouping `(1 11 06)` is invalid because `"06"` cannot be mapped into `'F'` since `"6"` is different from `"06"`.

Given a string `s` containing only digits, return the number of ways to decode it.

The test cases are generated so that the answer fits in a 32-bit integer.

**Example 1:**

>**Input:** s = "12"<br>
**Output:** 2<br>
**Explanation:** "12" could be decoded as "AB" (1 2) or "L" (12).

**Example 2:**

>**Input:** s = "226"<br>
**Output:** 3<br>
**Explanation:** "226" could be decoded as "BZ" (2 26), "VF" (22 6), or "BBF" (2 2 6).

**Example 3:**

>**Input:** s = "06"<br>
**Output:** 0<br>
**Explanation:** "06" cannot be mapped to "F" because of the leading zero ("6" is different from "06").
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 100`
- `s` contains only digits and may contain leading zero(`s`).
---
# Solution
**Approach:**

The problem can be solved by using dynamic programming. The idea is to create a cache (`dp`) to store the number of decodings for each substring of the input string. The cache is initialized to -1, which indicates that the number of decodings for that substring has not yet been computed.

**Algorithm:**

```c++
vector<int> dp(101, -1);
class Solution {
    int decode(string &s, int pos){
        int n = s.length();
        if(pos == n) return 1;
        if(s[pos] == '0') return 0;
        if(dp[pos] != -1) return dp[pos];
        int count = decode(s,pos+1);
        if(pos < n-1 && s.substr(pos,2) < "27"){
            count += decode(s, pos+2);
        }
        dp[pos] = count;
        return count;
    }
public:
    int numDecodings(string s) {
        if(s == "") return 0;
        fill(dp.begin(), dp.end() , -1);
        return decode(s, 0);
    }
};
```

**Complexity:**

The time complexity of the algorithm is O(n), where n is the length of the input string. This is because each substring is only decoded once. The space complexity of the algorithm is also O(n), as it uses a cache of size n.

**Implementation:**

The provided code implements the algorithm described above. The `decode` function takes a string and a position as input, and returns the number of decodings for the substring starting at that position. The `numDecodings` function takes a string as input, and returns the number of decodings for the entire string.